Project Gutenberg's Good Times with the Juniors, by Lilian M. Heath

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Good Times with the Juniors

Author: Lilian M. Heath

Release Date: July 1, 2017 [EBook #55018]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GOOD TIMES WITH THE JUNIORS ***




Produced by Chris Curnow, Harry Lamé and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)







  Transcriber’s Notes

  Text printed in italics and small capitals in the original work are
  transcribed _between underscores_ and in ALL CAPITALS, respectively.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




GOOD TIMES WITH THE JUNIORS




  Good Times
  With The Juniors

  By
  LILIAN M. HEATH

  [Illustration]

  United Society of Christian Endeavor
  Boston and Chicago


  COPYRIGHT, 1904,
  BY GEORGE B. GRAFF




Preface


“Good times” may be either work or play. But work and play--who shall
define them truly?

Our block houses, toy engines, and dolls once seemed intensely real and
important to us. They are not so now. In the same way, as we grow into
the still larger consciousness, into the “life more abundant,” much that
we now regard as of grave moment will take on a new aspect, and we shall
see that it was only play. But play is blessed, and necessary to the
very growth that discards it.

A dear enthusiast in certain lines of work, who is himself growing, I am
sure, once publicly expressed the belief that too close (!) an adherence
to the Christian Endeavor pledge results in a kind of “paperdolatry”
tending toward idleness and pauperism. Dear, dear! Can this be true?

A look around the social and business world of to-day ought to settle
the question. We take the look, and breathe more freely. Endeavorers
here, Endeavorers there, in places of honor and responsibility--what
could our good friend have been thinking about? We must be permitted to
smile, and think that on consideration he will smile, too. In fact, the
smile cure is the best one for this and all other kinds of pessimism.

Yet we are serious, too. In God’s great kindergarten, where we are all
scholars, learning through our play-work how to live, who shall say
which plays are most--or least--important?

One thing is certain. He who said, “Of such is the kingdom of heaven,”
was speaking of those whose only conscious motive was _play_--natural,
graceful, happy, loving life-expression. The growth resulting was
involuntary. With the growth came new impulses, new activities, and new
growth. It is the plan, in God’s kindergarten. Brother, if we would
_grow_, let us not be afraid of play!

To those whose loving ministry among the Juniors finds frequent occasion
for new plans, this little companion volume to “Eighty Pleasant
Evenings” is offered by one who has found both joy and growth in
preparing it. The proportion of the articles original with the compiler
is larger than in any of her previous collections; but ideas from other
sources have been welcomed and utilized whenever they could be made to
fit the Juniors’ needs.

Credit for specially contributed articles is due to Mr. Vincent Van
Marter Beede, Miss Imogen A. Storey, Miss Mattie Marie Gamble, Miss Ida
M. Parmelee, and Miss Alice Chadwick. The aim has been to make each
evening or afternoon as complete as possible in itself. The games
described are therefore included in the socials and parties, but in
addition to the general table of contents a separate index of games
alone is given, thus helping those who may frequently wish to try new
combinations.

With a smile and a prayer the writer sends forth this beloved piece of
her own life-expression, knowing that it will reach just the right
hands.

  Yours in Christian Endeavor,
  LILIAN M. HEATH.




Contents


  Advertising-Carnival                    118
  Barrel Brigade                           91
  Bells of Bonnydingle, The               155
  Bird Social                             101
  Boys’ Book Party, A                     113
  Card-Pasting                            115
  Cinderella Reception                    139
  Climbing the Bean-stalk                 116
  Evening with “Ads,” An                   42
  Fairy Strawberry Festival, A            104
  Flower-Show, A                           41
  For the First of April                   75
  Good Giant, The                          23
  Good-Luck Social, A                      54
  Handkerchief Gymnastics                  97
  Holly and Mistletoe Drill               146
  House Book                               67
  Indian Festival, An                     111
  Jack Frost Reception                    150
  Jack-Knife and Scissors Party            62
  “Jap” Social, A                          44
  Letter Social                            78
  Making Valentines                        57
  Mistress Mary’s Contrary Reception      152
  Mysterious Basket-Ball                  121
  New Kind of Dinner Party, A              60
  Orange Social                            39
  Pansy-Hunt, A                           106
  Parlor Athletic Meet, A                  69
  Parlor Golf Party                       119
  Parlor Mountain-Climb                    93
  Pastery Party, A                         49
  Pillow-Fight, A                          52
  “Polly Pitcher” Social                   66
  Puritan Thanksgiving Dinner, A          126
  Rainbow Social                           96
  Rainy Fourth, A                         108
  Reception at Curlycue Castle             63
  Red-Line Jubilee                         16
  Rope Social, A                           20
  Santa Claus Drill                        11
  Sky-Parlor Reception, No. 1              47
  Sky-Parlor Reception, No. 2              48
  Star Social                             141
  Teddy and the Goblin                    130
  Tropical Fair, A                         71
  Tuffet and the Web, The                  81
  Washington’s Birthday                    72




Good Times With the Juniors.




Santa Claus Drill.

BY IMOGEN A. STOREY.

  What would “good times” amount to in any well-regulated Junior society
  if they did not begin and end with the Christmas holidays? We begin,
  then, with a particularly jolly little drill for Christmas; and, as
  the girls so often have these matters all their own way, we will try
  for a change letting the boys be foremost this time. They will enjoy
  the fun of playing Santa. The Sunday-school primary class, too, must
  be drawn upon.--L. M. H.

An equal number of tiny boys and girls are to be used for the first part
of the drill. They should be dressed in their nightclothes, and each
little one should carry a pillow under his or her arm, and a stocking
hung across the shoulder.

The stage must be decorated with holly, mistletoe, and other Christmas
greens. A large fireplace should occupy the centre rear, shown in
Diagram B. A decorated motto, “A Merry Christmas” may be placed above
the mantel. The fireplace can easily be constructed of brick-colored
fireproof paper, which can be purchased at any hardware store for a
trifle, and with a piece of chalk from the blackboard the bricks can be
imitated.

On each side, as shown in Diagram A, should stand a small Christmas tree
trimmed up in the conventional way, with the exception of candles, which
it is better to omit unless great precaution is used to prevent an
accident. On each tree the lower limbs should be supplied with hooks
corresponding with a buttonhole in each stocking, which will enable the
little ones to hang their stockings quickly and securely on the trees.

The floor should be laid off for the first part as shown in Diagram A. A
different color used in laying off the diagrams for the two parts will
be found a great help, especially to the smaller children.

[Illustration: DIAGRAM A.]

The children enter from the rear, girls from the right and boys from the
left, or vice versa, carrying pillows under their outside arms and
stockings across the same shoulder, and follow lines R and L in A. When
they reach the dots shown on these lines, all extend their inside arms
diagonally up at the side, and grasp the partner’s hand.

When they reach the diagonal lines, they let go hands, and turn on these
lines, as shown by arrows, turning again on the front line. When the
leaders reach lines R and L, a signal from the piano is given to halt.
In halting, each should keep a distance of fifteen inches from the one
in front, the same as in marching. This distance should be kept
throughout the drill. Another signal is now given to face front, all
turning in the direction of the inside arm. They now recite with
gestures:

“We are going to hang up our stockings” (holding stockings out toward
the audience)

“On the Christmas tree” (turning the body just a little and pointing to
the trees),

“And we know old Santa will fill them,

“For we’ve been good” (girls, pointing to themselves)

“And we’ve been good” (boys, pointing to themselves)

“As good as we could be” (all together).

“Then we are going up to bed” (pointing up),

“And go fa-a-a-st asle-e-e-p” (recited very slowly, dropping heads on
the pillows).

“So, when old Santa comes” (heads raised),

“We won’t be awake to peep” (peep through fingers). The music is now
resumed, the leaders turn to the rear, and follow lines R and L, turning
on the rear line, and again on the side lines shown in A. From the side
lines they turn on the dotted lines, which circle the trees. After
circling the trees a few times, with the common skip step familiar to
all children, a signal is given to halt. The stockings are now hung up,
after which the signal is given to get back into line.

After circling the trees a few times more, they continue skipping,
following the dotted lines to the side lines, then to the front line.
When the leaders reach the front line, they turn on the diagonal lines,
resuming the march very softly and slowly, marching on their toes. When
the leaders reach lines R and L, all turn and throw a kiss to the
audience, then make their exit on the same lines as on entering, still
on their toes.

[Illustration: DIAGRAM B.]

The same number of larger children, all boys dressed like old Santa
Claus, now enter the fireplace from each side, as shown in B, running in
double time on their toes. Each boy except the last in each line should
wear a rein with sleigh-bells on its full length. All should be supplied
with whips. On their backs old Santa’s knapsack should be strapped,
filled with all sorts of things for the stockings. To increase the
merriment, some of the articles should be grotesque and funny.

They enter, each driving the one in front, following lines R and L,
turning right and left on reaching the front line, as shown by the
arrows in B, then turning again at the next corner as indicated by the
arrows. On reaching the rear they come down the diagonal lines curving
around the trees, shown by arrows, and then to the front line again.
They then run to the rear on lines R and L, and come down the diagonal
lines, circling the trees on the dotted and curved lines, making a
complete circle. After circling the trees a signal is given to halt and
drop reins.

They now proceed to fill the stockings, first unstrapping their
knapsacks and laying them on the floor. Signal. While the stockings are
being filled, the soft, slow music should not cease, but continue the
same as when the little ones are hanging them up. Each Santa should
stick his whip in the top of a stocking.

A signal is now given, and the Santas all fall into line, and the
running is resumed. They circle the trees, and follow the diagonal lines
to the front line, then turn on lines R and L, and make their exit the
same as on entering.

For a Sunday-school entertainment the small Santas can be used to
distribute the presents to the children in the audience after the drill
is over.




Red-Line Jubilee.


It is worth a great deal to have the right kind of memory. Although
there are more bright spots than shadows in our lives, we are apt to
forget this, and let the wrong kind of memory fasten itself upon us
quite unawares. Many would be surprised, if they kept a record, to see
how far the days with at least some gleams of gladness outnumbered the
“days that are dark and cold and dreary.” Try it. For a “red-line
jubilee” you need to begin a year beforehand. At New Year’s, or just
before, each Junior is to be presented with a calendar, and the plan is
as follows:

All that you need is your calendar, a clean pen, and a bottle of red
ink. Every evening you take out your calendar, and, if the day has been
a happy one, draw a red line all around the date; if it brought you only
some gleams of gladness, make a red dot for every gleam; and, if it was
a day of sorrow and trouble, unrelieved by any brightness, leave the
date blank, with only its own black line surrounding it. Then, at the
very end of the year, hold a “red-line jubilee,” and, see whose calendar
makes the best showing. As every one learns by kindness to others to
make his own happiness instead of being satisfied with any stale,
second-hand variety, the red lines will grow more and more numerous. To
the “red-line jubilee” bring all the calendars for inspection; let
there be a little talk from the pastor and a short programme of songs
and recitations by the Juniors, every one of the cheery kind. Here are
four that will serve as samples if the recitations are to be short
enough so that each Junior can have one:

I.

    Smile once in a while;
      ’Twill make your heart seem lighter.
    Smile once in a while;
      ’Twill make your pathway brighter.
    Life’s a mirror; if we smile,
      Smiles come back to greet us;
    If we’re frowning all the while,
      Frowns forever meet us.

II.

    There’s help in seeming cheerful
      When a body’s feeling blue,
    In looking calm and pleasant
      If there’s nothing else to do.
    If other folks are wearing,
      And things are all awry,
    Don’t vex yourself with caring;
      ’Twill be better by and by.

III.

    There’s never a rose in all the world
      But makes some green spray sweeter;
    There’s never a wind in all the sky
      But makes some bird-wing fleeter;
    There’s never a star but brings to heaven
      Some silver radiance tender,
    And never a rosy cloud but helps
      To crown the sunset splendor;
    No robin but may thrill some heart,
      His dawn-like gladness voicing;
    God gives us all some small, sweet way
      To set the world rejoicing.

IV.

    The little sharp vexations,
      And the briers that catch and fret--
    Why not take all to the Helper
      Who has never failed us yet?
    Tell him about the heartache,
      And tell him the longings, too;
    Tell him the baffled purpose
      When we scarce know what to do;
    Then, leaving all our weakness
      With the One divinely strong,
    Forget that we bore the burden,
      And carry away the song.

If longer selections are wanted, “Cheer Up” and “The Bright Side” from
“Junior Recitations” are both especially suitable. Such a meeting could
be held the last Sunday in the year; or it could be made a sociable
instead of a meeting, and held some evening during the week. In either
case, don’t forget to invite outsiders and share with them the sunshine
that is being made. If on a week-night, the programme should be very
short; and games, with the refreshments, should fill the rest of the
time. Decorate the rooms with red, including red shades over the lights
if possible, and let a large frosted cake suitably marked with red
lettering help to make the occasion memorable.

Among the games the variation of tag called “red line” could be included
if the room is large. Stretch a red ribbon across the floor in a
straight line, fastening the ends with weights or pins. This serves as a
goal. One of the Juniors who has been chosen “it” cries, “Red line!” and
starts to chase the other players. As soon as he touches one, both
return to the line; then these two, clasping hands, start out again and
touch some one else; then the three do the same; and so on. When there
are four, or any even number, at the line, they may go two by two; but,
whenever the number is odd, they must all run together in one long line.
When all are caught, the game begins again, the first one caught in the
previous game playing “it” as the new game is begun.

A “red-line hunt” would be fun, and could be arranged by hiding various
small gifts or souvenirs, each tied to one end of a red cord, this wound
and interlaced for some length around furniture, doors, etc., each child
to be given a free end with the task of following the “red line” to its
happy conclusion. Have each parcel wrapped in white tissue-paper and
tied with a red ribbon or a bit of red embroidery silk, to carry out
still further the plan of the evening. The gifts themselves should be
very simple, and should be something equally suitable for boys and
girls.




A Rope Social.


This is best fun when held in a barn, or a large attic, if stairways,
etc., are safe; and it will prove a good opportunity to “rope in” new
members, or at least to make those who are not members wish that they
were. There is no programme, though Christian Endeavor songs at the
beginning and close are in order at every Junior social. Girls may bring
their skipping-ropes; and, if the place admits of swings, by all means
put up several stout ones. Introduce the game of “rope ring-toss,” or
“grommet-pitching,” as it is called by sailors. The rings are made of
rope, with the strands first separated so as the better to weave them
into smooth, firm rings about six to ten inches across. They are made
all of the same size, or of graduated sizes, as preferred. If desired,
they may be wound with ribbon. The game consists in throwing these
“grommets” over an upright stake, or over pegs driven in the wall or in
a board, each peg being numbered. The players have each a certain number
of throws, and the score is kept to see who is most skilful.

When tired of this, they may play the game of “pink violets,” composed
of a little delightful nonsense and a good deal of running. The song
which accompanies it may be sung to the tune of “Sing a song of
sixpence,” or to any other that it will fit, or to not much of any tune
at all. The words are as follows:

    “Pink, pink violets, and roses bright and blue!
    A Junior in a prison--whatever shall we do?
    We’ll open the window east, and we’ll open the window west,
    And never, never tell if the prisoner does the rest!”

The children range themselves in a circle, holding a rope to help keep
the circle of a uniform size. One of them, the prisoner, goes inside the
ring; another, the jailer, stands outside. They begin to sing, and at
the words, “We’ll open the window east, and we’ll open the window west,”
the players on first one side, then the opposite, lift the rope high
enough for the prisoner to pass under; but the jailer outside is
watching. The prisoner may take his choice, but must run out at one side
or the other before the song stops, and must try to run once entirely
around the ring before being overtaken by the jailer. Those holding the
rope must neither help nor hinder the runners after the start is made,
and the openings must be at about equal distances from the jailer. If
the prisoner can run clear around the outside of the ring without being
overtaken, he takes his place with the rest, between the two whose “open
window” set him free; the former jailer becomes prisoner, the former
prisoner’s right-hand neighbor becomes jailer, and the game proceeds as
at first. But, if the prisoner is touched ever so lightly by the one in
chase, he is sent back to the centre, where he must remain; the jailer
joins the ring anywhere he chooses; his right-hand neighbor becomes the
new jailer and his left-hand one a new prisoner with privilege of
escape; and so the game continues. Each time only the _new_ prisoner
may run out. Whenever a third of the players are in the centre at one
time, it ends the game.

After the enjoyment of the games and swings an old-fashioned molasses
candy-pull may complete the festivities, and, as the Juniors vie with
one another in pulling and deftly handling these most fascinating
“ropes” of all as they gradually assume a light golden color, the social
is sure to be voted a success.




The Good Giant

A Fantasy in Two Acts and Two Scenes

BY VINCENT VAN MARTER BEEDE


People of the Play

  KIT LORING, _a boy of twelve_.
  JOSCELIN STACEY, _a boy of ten_.
  MAYSIE LORING, _a girl of eleven_.
  GILLIAN STACEY, _a girl of twelve_.
  THE GOOD GIANT GREATBIG.
  THE THREE HAPPY LITTLE GIANTS.
  THE GIANT’S BABY.
  JACK THE GIANT-LOVER.
  THE SAND MAN.
  THE KIND BEAR.
  THE OBLIGING OGRE.
  THE DEAR DRAGON.
  THE HONEST ROBBER.
  THE MOTHERLY GIANTESS.
  THE FRIENDLY WITCH.

  Time: This Very Minute.

  SCENE: Act I.--The Wood.
         Act II.--The Castle of Giant Greatbig.


Costumes

KIT, JOSCELIN, MAYSIE, GILLIAN: Summer clothing, of the present fashion.

GIANT: A father, uncle, or big brother, tall, deep-voiced. Scarlet
shirt, loose, elephant-colored jacket and knickerbockers, scarlet hose,
rough shoes. Needless to say, he should be stuffed out as much as
possible. A scarlet sash stuck full of swords and daggers. An
alarm-clock, with a brass chain, in his breast-pocket. Beard black and
full, mustache large and fierce, eyebrows corked heavily, nose and
cheeks reddened. Red bandanna bound about his head. He should _not_ look
as if he had just stepped out of a bandbox.

LITTLE GIANTS: Boys of twelve, the fattest that can be found. No matter
how fat they are, they should be stuffed out, just the same. Fluffy,
light wigs, short gingham frocks, legs bare except for gay-colored
socks,--say of emerald, scarlet, and vivid blue. Low shoes with a strap
across them, after the fashion of French dolls.

GIANT’S BABY: A boy or girl of ten, well stuffed out. White long
clothes, tight white cap, ruddy face. The Baby should carry a
policeman’s rattle.

JACK: A trim boy of eleven, handsomely dressed. Brown jacket, slashed
with Lincoln green; long green hose, pointed brown shoes. A gilt belt,
and a sword and a dagger in gilt scabbards. A curling horn slung over
his shoulder. A small brown cap with green feathers.

SAND MAN: A boy of ten or eleven. Buff or light-gray jacket and
knickerbockers, pointed cap, long white beard, brown stockings, canvas
slippers. A sack, apparently filled with sand, slung over his shoulders.
A sand-pail fastened to a leather belt, and in one hand a child’s
sand-shovel.

BEAR: A good-sized boy of fourteen, with a gruff voice. A skin of a
polar or black bear thrown about loosely-fitting white or black
clothing. Clumsy shoes. Better still, a regulation costumer’s bear’s
head, a long fur coat, and Indian moccasins of fur.

OGRE: A boy of twelve. Jacket and knickerbockers in red and white
stripes, red sash, high boots. Huge nose, brown beard, Turkish fez.

DRAGON: A slim boy of ten or twelve in tight-fitting clothes striped in
orange and red. Gold belt, long claws on hands and feet. If possible, a
rented crocodile’s head; but a head can be constructed of red and orange
cloth sewed over pasteboard, a large cone representing the snout, two
smaller cones the horns. A long, crinkly tail,--orange and red strips
wound about a heavy rope.

ROBBER: A piratical-looking boy of ten in a green jacket, red
knickerbockers, and top-boots. A blue sash stuck full of weapons, large
mustache, wide felt hat with green plumes.

GIANTESS: A mother, aunt, or big sister, dressed to look as large as
possible. Yellow gown, a long white apron.

WITCH: A nimble little girl of nine or ten. Black, pointed cap, black
cape and skirt.


Scenery

ACT. I. SCENE 1. The best trees are real ones, saplings and evergreens,
cut the morning before the performance. Painted scenery of course should
be used to help out. Palms and shrubs can be rented for the evening. A
great many pieces of candy--say, molasses drops wrapped in
tissue-paper--should be laid in the branches of the sugar-plum tree. The
bean-stalk can be made of three good-sized poles, set close together in
openings cut through the stage. The tops should go up out of sight of
the audience and be secured to a platform where actors can hide at the
right time. The poles should be wound with real foliage, or with green
tissue-paper. The trunk of the telephone tree might be a hollow log, in
which a small door is cut. The bell and cardboard receiver are hung
inside the opening. Branches should be skilfully thrust into the top of
the log, to finish the tree. Branches should be heaped also about the
“roots” of all the trees, and the more green things there are scattered
about the stage, the better. The blunderbuss is made by fitting a
cardboard horn to the end of a rifle, shot-gun, or toy gun; but the
entire weapon can be made of wood and cardboard.

SCENE 2. Before the curtain goes up the bean-poles should be lifted out
of their sockets, and the tops loosened and held in place by ropes in
the hands of actors on the platform above. At the right moment the poles
are allowed to fall.

ACT II. The fireplace may be cut through sheets of cardboard. A box may
be placed in the opening. The larger the fireplace, the more giant-like
will it seem. It would be a very good thing if some of the little
carpenters in the company could make a huge chair, table, and cradle.


ACT I.


  SCENE 1.--_A clearing in a thick wood. Left, the bean-stalk; right,
  the sugar-plum tree and the telephone tree. The four children_, KIT,
  JOSCELIN, MAYSIE, GILLIAN, _are discovered, with their clothes
  somewhat torn and mussed. The girls are seated on a fallen log. An
  open and empty lunch-basket lies before them. The boys, armed with
  sticks, are moving about. At the rise of the curtain_ MAYSIE _is
  sobbing_.

KIT. Cheer up, sis. What’s the use of crying? It isn’t so very late, is
it, Jos? We can’t be many miles from home. We’ve got our compass along,
you know; and all we have to do is to keep due east.

GILLIAN. I’m sick of our old exploring, anyway! (_Sniffling a bit._)

JOSCELIN. You make me tired, Gill! What do we care?

GILLIAN. It was your plan, Jos, and you see how it has come out. I
believe that farmer was telling you a whopper when he said there was a
robbers’ cave in these woods.

KIT. O no, he wasn’t. It is a true story. Tommy Field’s father says it
is. He says people have been hunting for the cave a hundred years, and
that there is treasure----

MAYSIE (_wiping her eyes_). I’d rather have a nice big piece of bread
and molasses than ten million rubies, I would!

JOSCELIN. We may find some checkerberries yet.

  (_The roaring of a bear, and the trolling of a song, heard._)

THE GIRLS (_rushing toward the boys_). Oh! Oh! Oh! A bear! What shall we
do?

KIT. Hide--and be quick about it! There--into those thick bushes! (_The
girls hide at rear._) Jos, we’ve got to defend them! Wish I had a gun or
something!

JOSCELIN. I think I had better shin up a tree!

KIT. Not a bit of it. Let’s hide, though.

  (_They do so, peeping out from time to time, and flourishing their
  clubs. The roaring and singing become louder. The words of the song,
  sung in a great, gruff voice, are the following._)

    Sing fol de rol de riddle-iddle ay!
    I am big, and I am strong,
    Happy as the day is long.
          The sheep, they follow trusting at my heels.
    Upon my shoulders light
    The cooing pigeons white,
          And in my pockets squirrels find their meals.
    Sing fol de rol de riddle-iddle ay!

    Sing fol de rol de riddle-iddle ay!
    No brazen club for me!
    No bloody trickery!
          No dragging of a princess by the hair!
    No robbing of birds’ nests,
    No eating up of guests,
          No frightening of peasants at a fair!
    Sing fol de rol de riddle-iddle ay!

  (_Enter, right, the_ GOOD GIANT GREATBIG, _carrying a blunderbuss, and
  arm in arm with the_ KIND BEAR.)

_The_ GOOD GIANT.

    Fee--fi--fo--fum!
    I smell some boys and girls, I vum!
    Be they short, or be they tall,
    I’ll hunt them out, and kiss them all!

Come on, Bear! I hear breathings. Don’t be frightened, my dear kids. We
wouldn’t eat you for anything.

KIT (_sticking his head around the tree_). Honestly?

GIANT AND BEAR. Honestly!

GIANT. Come out, all of you. I want to talk with you. (_The children
come forward, the girls more timidly than the boys. The girls scream
when the_ BEAR _offers his paw and hugs them gently. The boys, too, are
hugged, to their amusement._ GIANT _kisses the children_.) How do you
happen to be in the middle of the wood, all by yourselves, at this time
of day?

JOSCELIN. We’re lost. We have been trying to find the robbers’ cave.
Say, are you a real giant?

GIANT. Of course, my boy. Do I appear like a midget? I am not only a
giant, but the last of the giants. My uncle was the famous Two-Headed
Giant, and my fourteenth cousin was slain by Jack the Giant-Killer.

KIT. Is he alive?

GIANT. Very much so, I can assure you. Do you know, he’s my only enemy?
To tell the truth, I’m mortally afraid of him. He’s a terrible boy. He’s
sure death on giants, and will never believe that I’m not as bad as my
relatives. I’m afraid he’ll get the best of me some fine day.

GILLIAN. Please, sir, how can we get home? I want to go, awfully bad!

GIANT. Well, now, little girl, I’ll see that you get home safely, never
fear. But, dear me, you are the first children that I have met in these
deep woods. I generally go about at night to keep out of the way of
Jack, the Giant-Killer, but my wife wanted me to shoot a few eagles for
supper.

JOSCELIN. Can you tell us where the robbers’ cave is?

BEAR. I live in it.

KIT. Is there treasure?

BEAR. O, a few pecks of emeralds; that’s all. I threw most of them away.
They are very uncomfortable to lie on.

JOSCELIN. Where are the robbers?

BEAR. Dead, all except the captain. He has turned honest, and lives with
the Giant.

GIANT (_who has been gazing upward_). Hi! There’s an eagle! (_Raises
blunderbuss. Children stop their ears. He fires. An eagle drops at his
feet._) And there’s a crow! (_Shoots again. A bunch of black feathers
floats down._) I’ve only clipped his tail-feathers! How ridiculous the
bird must look! Listen, children. If you start for home now, it will be
dark before you get there. Why can’t you spend the night at my castle?

KIT. Our parents would----

GIANT. I know. You think your people will be anxious. I’ll telephone
them. (_Goes to the tree at the right, opens a little door in the trunk,
takes down a telephone receiver, and rings the bell._) What’s your
number? Cucumber? (_Rings bell again._)

KIT. No. It’s 333.

GIANT (_speaking into the telephone_). Give me 333. Thank you. Who is
this? Mr. Loring? This is Mr. Greatbig. I found some of your little
relatives lost in the wood, and they are going to stay at my house over
night. Don’t be alarmed. They will come home in the morning. Good-by. I
didn’t give him a chance to say “No.”

BEAR. Are you hungry, children?

MAYSIE. Terribly!

BEAR. Then I’d better shake the sugar-plum tree.

  (_Shakes a tree, right. Shower of candy. The children scramble for it.
  Clear sound of a horn._)

GIANT (_much disturbed_). Fee--fi--fo--fum! Jack’s horn! Children, I beg
of you to escape with me, or I am done for. Here--up this bean-stalk!

  (_A louder blast from the horn._ BEAR _and_ GIANT _boost the boys up
  the bean-stalk, left._)

GIANT AND BEAR. Hurry! Hurry!

CURTAIN.


  SCENE 2.--_The same._ JACK THE GIANT-KILLER _is chopping furiously at
  the bean-stalk. His horn, his lantern, and his sword lie near at
  hand._

VOICE OF KIT (_from above_). Too late, Jacky, my boy. We’ve chopped off
our end of the stalk; so we’re safe and sound.

(_Shower of beans falls on_ JACK.)

CURTAIN.


ACT II.


  SCENE 1.--_A room in_ GIANT GREATBIG’S _Castle. Rear, left, window;
  fireplace, with lighted candle on the mantel, centre; door, right,
  rear. Bare wooden floor. Left, a big cradle, containing the_ GIANT’S
  _baby. A rocking-chair next the cradle. Right, a rude table, on it a
  drinking-mug as large as a bucket. Smoke-stained walls. At the rise, a
  ring-around dance is going on to lively music. Those dancing are the_
  GIANT, _the_ BEAR, _the_ DEAR DRAGON, _the_ OBLIGING OGRE, _and the
  four lost children. The_ MOTHERLY GIANTESS _stands at right, beating
  time with a potato-masher on a chopping-bowl. The door bursts open.
  Enter the_ THREE HAPPY LITTLE GIANTS _in great excitement_.

FIRST H. L. G. O papa! papa!

(_Dance and music cease._)

GIANT. What is it, my child?

FIRST H. L. G. Why, we peeped over the edge of the bean-stalk cliff, and
Jack chopped the stalk down, and it fell on his leg, and he lies there
groaning!

GIANTESS. The poor fellow! Hub, what are you going to do about it?

GIANT. We must help the lad. Boys, get the rope ladder. (_They do so._)

OBLIGING OGRE. Here, give it to me. What is an ogre for if not to be
obliging? Come on, everybody!

  [_Exeunt all but_ GIANTESS.

  _Enter through window, left, the_ FRIENDLY WITCH _and her broomstick_.

WITCH. Good-evening, Mrs. Greatbig.

GIANTESS. Goo--good-evening! How you startled me! What have you been
doing to-day?

WITCH. O, sweeping cobwebs off the sky, so that it will be bright and
pleasant for picnics to-morrow. I cleaned soot out of chimneys to save
work for the poor little sweep-boys, and I gave old men and women
diamond spectacles with gold rims so that they can read without hurting
their eyes.

GIANTESS. You are a good soul indeed.

WITCH. O, no, I’m not. I’m just reporting progress. And I dropped
chocolates, and caps with lavender ribbons, through the open windows of
Old Ladies’ Homes.

GIANTESS. Lovely! lovely!

WITCH. But the best fun of all was giving a breath of air to fifty poor
women who work in city factories. I rode them on my broomstick three or
four hundred miles or so. One dear thing cracked her funny-bone on the
north star. I didn’t mean to brush by so closely. (_Enter the_ OGRE _and
the_ GIANT, _supporting_ JACK, _whose leg is neatly bandaged. The other
people follow._ JACK _is placed in the rocking-chair, by the fire_.) I
can make his leg well, quick as a wink! (_She touches_ JACK’S _leg with
her broomstick. He pulls off the bandage, and capers about
delightedly._)

JACK. Thank you, dear Witch. Giant Greatbig, I am more sorry than I can
say that I have hounded you all this time. I never suspected that you
were a good giant. You know the kind of man your uncle used to be.

GIANT (_shaking hands with_ JACK). Well, now we are good friends, aren’t
we, hey?

JACK. You know I’m an orphan. I wonder if you would care to adopt me.

GIANT. A very good plan. I know you will set a good example to my boys,
and make yourself useful generally.

GIANTESS (_hugging_ JACK). You dear child, you! To think that an hour
ago I dreaded to hear your very name spoken! My! How muscular you are!

JACK. Dear Mr. and Mrs. Greatbig, I would like to change my name.
Hereafter I wish to be known as Jack the Giant-_Lover_.

  (_All cheer and clap their hands. The_ DEAR DRAGON, _after embracing_
  JACK, _goes to centre and recites_):

    O, once I was a Nawful Thing--a dread to man and child.
    I snorted and cavorted till the villagers went wild.
    I ate a church and steeple and three hundred pews of people,
    And then I waved my crinkly tail, and bellowed, bowed, and smiled.

    Of course I was a favorite when July Fourth came round,
    For my firework and my smoke-murk were the finest to be found.
    Why, people paid a dollar just to hear my mighty holler,
    And when I breathed out ten-foot flames they fell flat on the
          ground.

    To shorten my biography, I’ll whisper what befell.
    A fire-brigade it was that made me anything but well.
    They played the hose, and soaked me, and with their wall-hooks poked
          me,
    Until I crawled away more wet and sore than I can tell.

    I took a cold, and nearly died. When I grew strong again,
    I could no more breathe flames, and roar from my grim mountain den.
    I had no great desire, sir, to scorch the fields with fire, sir,
    Or to make my meals of churches filled with chubby village men.

(_Loud rapping heard._)

GIANT. Come in!

_Enter the_ HONEST ROBBER.

ROBBER. Hollo, everybody. Having a tea-party, Mrs. Giantess?

GIANTESS. O, no. Hub picked up some nice lost children in the wood, and
here they are. Children, this is Rob Highway, the Honest Robber.

  (_The_ HONEST ROBBER _shakes hands with all the children_.)

GIANT (_drinking from his mug_). Well, Rob, my boy, how have you been
making yourself useful to-day?

ROBBER. This morning I went to the dog-pound with a furniture-van, and
filled it cram-full of lost puppies--cram-full, children. You never
heard such a growling and yowling in your life. I drove slowly, and
whenever I heard a child crying: “I want my dog! He’s lost!” I’d say,
“Describe him,” and it wasn’t long, generally, before the dog and his
little master were in each other’s arms.

KIT. Hurrah for you, old man!

JOSCELIN. What else did you do?

ROBBER. This evening I have chased seventeen burglars and taken away
their stolen goods from them.

MAYSIE. Did you keep the things yourself?

ROBBER. Fie, fie, no! I’m an _Honest_ Robber. I restored the property,
and made a hundred dollars reward.

  (_A distant clock strikes twelve, and the_ GIANT’S _alarm-clock goes
  off in his pocket. He takes it out hurriedly._)

GIANT. Yes, I am correct. Gracious, children, it’s very late for you to
be up! My dear, shouldn’t they go to sleep at once?

Giantess. Yes, by all means, hub. I’ve been so excited I forgot all
about such a thing as bedtime.

  [_Exit, left._

GIANT. I’ll telephone for the Sand Man. (_Goes to the telephone at the
right of the fireplace._) 128 Seashore, please. Hollo, Sandy. Take the
first gust of wind for Castle Greatbig. He’ll be here in a moment,
children.

  (_Enter_ GIANTESS, _left, with green boughs_.)

GIANTESS (_strewing boughs on the floor_). Sit right down,
chickabiddies. (_The_ LORINGS _and_ STACEYS _and the children of the_
GIANT _sit down together_.)

GIANT. Good-night, children. My helpers and I have an important piece of
work to do between now and sunrise. We are going to carry a dozen or two
tenement-houses from the city into the country, and set them down gently
in green fields.

GILLIAN. Won’t the children be surprised and happy when they wake up!

BEAR. And in place of the houses we shall lay out a beautiful playground
for the poor children who are left in the neighborhood. Good night, all!

CHILDREN. Good night!

JACK. Good night!

OGRE. Good night!

CHILDREN. Good night!

DRAGON. Happy dreams!

CHILDREN. Good night!

ROBBER. Good night!

CHILDREN. Good night!

WITCH. Good night!

  [_Exit by the window._

GIANT. I’ll be back in the morning to see that you get home safely. Good
night!

CHILDREN AND GIANTESS. Good night!

  _Enter_ SAND MAN, _softly, by door, right, without rapping_. GIANTESS
  _nods to him, then blows out all but one candle. The_ SAND MAN _waves
  his hand. The children sink back on the boughs. He then casts a little
  imaginary sand from his bag into each eye, and goes out as softly as
  he came._ GIANTESS _takes up her baby from the cradle, left. It
  squalls. She hushes it, seats herself in a rocking-chair, centre, and
  sings this lullaby:_

        B-a, ba, b-o, bo,
        B-i, bi, baby bye.
    Mamma’s little Giant is tired of all his play,
    Tired of all the mischief he has done to-day;
    Tired of pulling pine-trees clear up by the roots.
    Go to sleep, my Giant, my six-foot Tootsy-Woots!

(_Children snore._)

CURTAIN.




Orange Social.


Have bunches of yellow flowers pinned to draperies and in other places
where the romping will not cause breakages. All the other decorations,
as far as possible, should be of the same cheerful hue. Some one may
give a brief talk describing “The Children that Live where Oranges
Grow,” illustrated by stereopticon or by some of the Perry Pictures.
This, if carefully prepared, can be made very interesting to children of
colder climates than those of sunny Italy and our own South. Missionary
features may be introduced if desired.

After the talk have the decks cleared for action. Did you ever see, or
participate in, a game of orange croquet? If not, you have missed a
great deal of fun. It is merely parlor croquet, with oranges for balls,
umbrella-handles for mallets, and big books placed tent-wise upon the
floor for wickets. An umpire could be improvised out of an orange, a
squash, and four or five sticks or clothes-pins. Cut the features in the
orange-peel with a penknife, fasten the orange head and the squash body
together with a short stick whittled sharp at the ends, insert the
clothes-pins for arms and legs, and your umpire is complete.

Following the croquet may be the game of “Mr. Woodenhead.” A strip of
orange-colored cambric is stretched on the floor, across the room, to
form a race-course. At one end place a large tray of oranges, at the
other an empty basket. The game is to see who in a given time can carry
the most oranges safely across the room, from tray to basket, with the
aid only of a wooden spoon. A jolly face painted or carved on the
outside of the bowl of the spoon, and a large yellow bow tied on for a
cravat, turns the spoon into “Mr. Woodenhead.” He may be presented as a
souvenir to the winner of the race.

Refreshments may be sandwiches, lemonade, and orange squares, or other
plain cake with orange icing. As the children are about to go home, they
may be given each a missionary mite-box in the form of an orange, to
fill for the benefit of some mission field; or, if it has not been a
missionary social, a souvenir that would please any child is a little
basket cut out of the peel of an orange, using half, with a strip of
peel from the other half left on for a handle, the basket so made to be
filled with candies.




A Flower Show.


Each boy or girl represents a flower. Every one jots down the names of
the other guests and the names of the flowers which he supposes they
are. The reward for the most names might be a dozen roses, and for the
least a pair of sunflowers, or a bunch of squash-blossoms, or a geranium
growing in a bright-colored tin can. Here are some hints for costumes:

1. Pennyroyal. An English penny hung from the neck by a ribbon.

2. Oxeye. A target painted on a card. An arrow is sticking through the
“bull’s-eye.”

3. Monk’s-hood. A boy wearing a monk’s cowl, or perhaps the complete
dress of a monk.

4. Goldenrod. The boy or girl carries a brass curtain-rod.

5. Hop. The boy or girl must occasionally hop on one foot.

6. Four-o’clock, or Thyme, either one. A clock hung from the neck is set
at four o’clock.

7. Elder. A boy is made to appear like an old man. His hair is dusted
with flour, and wrinkles are painted on his face. He should lean on a
staff, and wear spectacles.

8. Broom. A girl dressed like a housekeeper carries a tiny broom.

9. Rocket (rock it). A girl is rocking her doll in a cradle.

10. Sage. A solemn, wise-looking boy in spectacles, top hat, and long
trousers. He must frequently peep into a large book.

11. Sweet-william. A boy named William should wear a necklace made of
lumps of sugar.

12. Jonquil. A boy named John, wearing quills in every available place.

When the guessing and refreshments are over, a floral game which might
be added is that of “Red and White Roses.” Sixteen can play. Tie a
narrow strip of cloth to one sleeve of each Junior, eight of the strips
white and eight red, to distinguish the Red from the White Roses.
Appoint a captain from each side, or let one be chosen by “counting
out.” Determine in the same way which side shall move first. Spread a
sheet on the floor; mark it off with black crayon in sixteen squares,
four on a side; and you are ready. The object of each division is to get
four players of its own color in a row, either straight or diagonally.
The first captain begins by placing himself on any square he chooses.
The captain from the other side does the same, and the other players
follow, one from each side moving alternately and trying to secure the
row of red or white roses as the case may be. This game, believed to be
a new one, is likely to prove a favorite.




An Evening with “Ads.”


Set the Juniors to collecting clever pictorial advertisements, omitting,
of course, the liquor and tobacco ones. Each might learn what facts he
can, of general interest, regarding the trade-mark chosen or the
business represented in connection with the pictures he has selected.
Then the Juniors invite their friends, young and old, to a social
“evening with ads.”

The pictures are pinned by the Juniors to a large sheet previously
fastened to the wall. After they have been thoroughly examined by the
guests, they are taken down and distributed by the Juniors. One picture,
together with paper and pencil, is given to each guest, who is then
requested to write, in verse, a few lines to fit the picture. After this
all are called upon to read what has been written. For example, a
shirt-maker has an advertisement showing the picture of the back of a
man’s head labelled, “This is Tom; meet me face to face,” with the
question, “Am I Irish or Scotch?” written above it. The rhyme produced
to fit it was as follows:

    “Can this be Tom, the piper’s son,
      Of pork-abstracting fame?
    If so, he must be Irish, sure,
      The pig could prove that same!
    And Irish linen shirts, you know,
      Must be the very best;
    So buy your goods henceforth of Tom;
      You’ll find they stand the test.”

The papers are collected and put in a safe place, after which a vote is
taken on the merits of the various effusions.

The pictures are then again distributed, this time to their owners among
the Juniors, who have been making them a special study, and each Junior
who is prepared tells a fact or two in regard to one of the pictures.
The trade-mark of a certain popular brand of cocoa originated in Holland
more than two hundred years ago, and no doubt the way in which it came
to be chosen would make an interesting story. These incidents will bring
out still other similar facts which the guests may happen to know
regarding the advertisements, and a half-hour or so will thus pass
pleasantly and instructively to all.

Refreshments may consist of some of the articles advertised, or of
sandwiches, apple salad, small cakes, and lemonade, or, if in the proper
season, hot maple syrup and biscuit at a charge of twenty cents a plate.
If so voted, a more or less extended report of the evening’s
entertainment may be sent to the newspaper; and a marked copy may be
sent to the firm whose unique picture advertisement won the popular
vote. This should be accompanied by a letter of explanation.




A “Jap” Social.


Have you ever seen the pretty little Japanese cottages in Jackson Park,
Chicago, with their quaint decorations looking as if they had been
transported in some really magical way from the land of the lotus
blossom? It was looking at these that gave me the idea of a “Jap social”
for the Juniors.

Arrange Japanese fans, parasols, and lanterns about the room, lay down
strips or rugs of Japanese matting, and partition off various
cosey nooks with Japanese screens. Have no chairs, but plenty of
cushions instead. As to flowers, they can be chosen from a long
list--chrysanthemums, white lilies and roses, purple Canterbury bells,
cherry blossoms, clematis, yellow and white water-lilies; the pink lotus
and white feathery orchid are not so easy to procure, but might be
imitated, perhaps, with paper. At one such social the walls were
entirely covered with branches of trees sprinkled thickly with cherry
blossoms made of pink paper, representing the beautiful gardens of
Tokyo.

[Illustration]

This would be a good occasion for the Juniors to entertain strangers and
“grown-ups,” and charge an admission fee, as it can be made very pretty
and interesting.

Costumes for the Juniors can be improvised from flowered silk or cotton
draperies with a little basting, a twist here, and a pin there, such as
deft fingers can give. Do not forget the _obi_, or broad sash, the
flowing sleeves, and the fans, for the little girls. One of the boys
might wear a straw rain-coat, which is strictly Japanese, and is made as
shown in the picture. Another boy might be a water-carrier, dressed in
dark-blue cotton and bearing a yoke on his shoulders, from each end of
which hangs a wooden water-pail.

The bells of Japan have a remarkably musical, silvery tone; tradition
says that the finest have much silver in their composition, which may
account for their deep and wonderful sweetness. Whether this be true or
not, they are much more musical than Japanese music itself. They are not
sounded by a clapper within, but are struck from the outside, by a sort
of wooden arm or battering-ram. This might be imitated, by a little
experimenting.

Tables should be placed around, containing curios and Japanese ware for
sale, including blotters and other small articles decorated in Japanese
designs, some of which can be prepared by the Juniors themselves; also
real Japanese boxes and trays; the fine Japanese colored photographs
procured from the United Society of Christian Endeavor; and the quaint
Japanese dolls. Coins from Japan, if procurable, will be of interest.

Among the articles for sale should be the toy called by Japanese
children “Daruma San,” or “Mr. Daruma.” It is a strong pasteboard figure
of an old man in a squatting position, and is so rounded and weighted at
the bottom that it will always bob up in a sitting posture, no matter
how often one may knock it over. Another toy still more interesting is
the “Ukibara.” These perfectly plain-looking little paper sticks are
magical in their possibilities, for when placed in water they act as if
they were alive, unfolding and floating around in the form of brightly
colored fishes, flowers, fruits, animals, and many other pretty and
curious things. Children, and older people, too, will watch them a long
time without tiring of the amusement. They come in envelopes. An outfit
costs fifteen cents, and can also be procured from the United Society.

Stories and recitations about Japan are in order. A fan drill by a
number of girls would be a pretty feature to introduce, if desired, even
though not new enough to claim space for description here.

Refreshments might include tea for the grown-up guests, sandwiches for
all, small bowls of rice to be eaten with chopsticks, hot ears of
roasted sweet corn on a pretty Japanese tray, and a variety of sweet
cakes. All should be served on tiny square individual tables about six
inches high; and, if any one complains at being obliged to fold himself
up like an umbrella in order to partake of these delicacies, tell him
that his complaints cannot be understood unless he will consent to
express them in Japanese. But, as every one is extremely polite in
Japan, there will probably be no trouble of this kind.




Sky-Parlor Reception, No. 1.


AN attic is usually a wonderland of delight to any normal child, whether
a reader of Sara Crewe’s charming adventures or not; but it is a
wonderland too little explored. A large, clean, light, old-fashioned
attic may be utilized in turn for a reception-hall, curiosity-shop,
library, work-room, dramatic recital, and romping-ground. Its
possibilities are great, and would fill several afternoons. One such
occasion might be as follows:

Let the Juniors be received with more or less ceremony by the committee
of large or small folk who are acting as hosts and hostesses. If
old-fashioned costumes are worn by those receiving, it adds to the fun.
After the arrival in the “sky-parlor,” the guests are privileged to have
a sight of any antique relics that have curious stories connected with
them. If a nice grandma can be found to tell the stories, so much the
better; but it is to be hoped that she will not prove too fascinating if
there is to be any work done.

Tables are placed around in light portions of the attic, spread with
piles of old papers and magazines, and a pair of scissors and a chair
for each child. The Juniors look through the periodicals, and clip
pictures, and perhaps stories also, that they think would be good for
future scrap-book use, placing them in boxes, to be sorted next time.
Rosy apples, nuts, and pop-corn will be acceptable after their arduous
labors, and the Juniors will go home quite ready to come again the very
next Saturday afternoon.




Sky-Parlor Reception, No. 2.


This time a corner of the attic is transformed into a representation of
Sara Crewe’s odd little room, so cleverly and mysteriously changed from
dismal bareness to cosey luxury by the East Indian friend next door.
There should be a cot, cushions, rugs, draperies, quaint Oriental
ornaments, and last, but not least, the three essentials--Sara herself,
her long-suffering doll, and the monkey. A toy monkey will do. The story
may be read--and more or less acted, if desired--for the entertainment
of the children.

Either before or afterward some of the clippings may be sorted ready for
scrap-books; and a few such afternoons of mingled work and play will be
among the brightest experiences of the Juniors.




A Pastery Party.


Be very mysterious in your remarks about what is to go on at this party,
answering all questions by whispering in the ears of your friends: “Why,
don’t you know what a pastery party is like? I’m really surprised!”

There is pastry and pastry. A pastery party, to keep the secret no
longer, is a scrap-book party, nothing more. O, but it’s fun! Try it.
Get hold of a lot of illustrated periodicals; the more guests you have,
the more magazines you need. If you can find colored picture cards
besides, all the better. Ask your mother to make enough flour paste to
fill several cups. Fifteen or twenty guests are not too many. A sheet,
an old table-cloth, or neat pieces of wrapping-paper should be spread on
the table or tables. There must be plenty of elbow-room for
scrap-booking.

A pastery party need not be an expensive affair. I once had three dozen
scrap-books made for about two dollars and fifty cents. This is the way
I went about it: Down at the wholesale wrapping-paper store I bought a
good-sized pile of sheets left over from a large order. The paper was
manila, smooth, and not too thin or too thick. I cannot remember the
exact measurements. At any rate, the old binder up-town cut them into
two sizes, and the smaller size, eight by fifteen inches, is the best
for a pastery party. There should not be more than twenty pages in a
book. My covers were of terra-cotta cartridge-paper. Any medium heavy
paper will do. If you wish to be economical, you can stitch each book
with a single piece of string, punching the holes with a scissors-blade.
The books should be numbered.

When the guests, seated at the tables, are waiting for the pie (or
something) to be brought on, you and your assistants should enter,
dressed in chefs’ aprons and caps, from the kitchen, first with a
trayful of paste-cups, which you should set on the table in a very
dignified manner, one cup for each guest. Maybe the guests will peer
into their cups, and wonder whether they are expected to eat their
custard without any spoons! As soon as they catch sight of the
mucilage-brushes--which can be procured cheaply at the stationer’s--and
the scissors, they will begin to suspect what is meant by the word
“pastery.” Bring on next the scrap-books and the magazines, and tell
your friends that at the end of an hour of “scrapping” rewards will be
given by three grown-up judges for (1) the neatest and best-arranged
book, (2) for the book containing the largest number of pictures, and
(3) for the book which is filled first.

The time-limit should be exact. Every person should write down on a
piece of paper the number marked on the cover of his book, and next to
the number his own name. The books should be carried to the judges, who
are seated up-stairs in a room with closed doors. Not until they have
announced the winning numbers will they be furnished with the slips of
paper containing the names to which the numbers belong. By taking these
precautions the contest will be absolutely fair. The scrap-books should
be given next day to the children’s ward of a hospital, or to the
children’s room in a library. Each pastery-cook’s name should be written
in his book, and under the names of the successful competitors should be
set down what rewards they won.

The rewards might be these: A handsome scrap-book, a bottle of library
paste, and a pair of scissors. While the judges are deciding, the
company might play “Jenkins up!” or cut paper dolls. The refreshments
might be miniature apple-pies, the size of a small saucer, for each
guest. After the party is over ask those guests who did not have time to
paste their books full kindly to do so at home and return them to the
hostess as soon as possible.




A Pillow-Fight.


To prepare for this, the Juniors will be busy collecting “ammunition”
for some time, from all quarters--woods and fields, garden and lawn,
library and sewing-room. When there is enough, they can have their
pillow-fight. In fact, they may need to have several of them.

First, the various pillows, or cushions, must be made. The girls can
first make the plain, square, muslin foundation bags, and then embroider
covers for them, or they can make the covers by sewing bright ribbons
together in strips, or by crocheting them, or in various other ways to
suit their own taste. Each Junior girl, from the oldest to the youngest,
will want to make one.

Meanwhile, both boys and girls can collect, prepare, and sort the
materials for filling them. Some can be filled with cotton, with a
little sachet-powder sprinkled in; others, with paper torn into small
pieces; others, with pine needles; others, with dried rose-leaves--or
the rose-leaves, if not very plentiful, may be mixed with bits of paper,
or used with cotton instead of sachet-powder. The clean, fine inner
husks of corn, torn into shreds, and dried, make excellent ones; and a
recent fancy is for pillows filled with dried autumn leaves. I would not
advise feathers; they are not so inexpensive, and are usually too much
trouble when flying about in a room full of people. The other materials
named above are all easy to manage, and still other good ones will be
likely to occur to the Juniors and their friends.

When the foundation pillows are filled and sewed up, which in itself
will be both fun and work for the whole society, and before the
decorated covers are put on, is the time to have the pillow-fight.
Divide the Juniors into two companies; line them up across the room from
one another, with their ammunition; and if they are normal children they
will need no instructions how to proceed. The pillows are “fired”
merrily back and forth until one company or the other is driven from its
stronghold or has had all its ammunition confiscated by the opposing
forces. It is a good test of the sewing, too; for, unless the stitches
are secure, there _may_ be a sudden shower of rose-leaves, paper
snowflakes, or autumn treasures, when least expected.

Nuts and apples, or other simple refreshments, will be welcome when the
battle is over. The outside covers are then put on the pillows, and the
last bit of sewing--the one seam left open in the pretty cover--may be
finished if there is time, or taken home by the Juniors to be completed
there. The pillows, when done, may be either sold at a fair or given to
some home for invalids, where there never can be too many or too great a
variety. If the latter plan is adopted, a cheering message, either a
comforting verse from the Bible--the health promises are the best, and
will often do what the doctor’s medicine cannot--or a bit of sunshine
from some bright or restful poem may be written on a slip of paper and
pinned to each pillow. Selecting, writing, and attaching these will make
more pleasant work for the Juniors, which may be done separately or
together.




A Good-Luck Social.


For a late October social, perhaps for a Hallowe’en frolic, this will be
liked by many; but it is good at any time of the year.

A good-luck fairy, or witch, in a long red cloak and high pointed hat,
should be mistress of ceremonies. If the time is Hallowe’en, the rooms
may be lighted with Jack-o’-lanterns. One doorway may have a portière of
apples hung on strings of different lengths. The tallest Juniors are to
stoop and “bite” for those hanging on the longest strings; the shorter
ones reach for those above, in the same way. In the middle of this
portière hangs a horseshoe, and for the first game let the Juniors each
try to throw three tiny apples between the prongs of the horseshoe.
Those successful in doing so are supposed to have good luck throughout
the coming year.

Another game that might be played is apple-shooting. Place apples of
distinctive colors, red, yellow, and green, afloat in a tub of water,
and let the Juniors shoot at them with toy bows and arrows. To fire an
arrow into a red apple assures one of good health; to shoot a yellow one
means wealth; and those who succeed in hitting the green ones are to
have some especial piece of great good luck.

Arrange the chairs in the form of a horseshoe, and seat the Juniors, all
except two--one who goes out of the room, and one who acts as
“reporter,” and must have a good memory. This is the game of “wishes and
compliments.” Each player makes a remark or wish concerning the one out
of the room. For instance, one says, “She wears a wig.” Another, “I wish
she would sing a song.” A third, “She can’t sing a note.” A fourth, “She
can recite beautifully.” A fifth, “I wish she may go to Africa as a
missionary.” A sixth, “She is dreadfully conceited.” A seventh, “She is
the best scholar in her class,” etc. The “compliments” will not all be
of the most flattering kind, and the wishes will be either sensible or
nonsensical ones, as occur to the wishers. Then the reporter calls in
the absent one, tells her that one person has said so-and-so about her,
and asks her to guess from the remark who the person is. She has only
one guess for each remark. As soon as she guesses one correctly, the one
thus discovered must take her place; and so on throughout the game.

This game might be followed by a number of “good-luck stories,” each
Junior telling the best piece of good luck, as he considers it, that
ever happened to him.

A hunt for four-leaf clovers, of which there may be a hundred or more
made of green paper and hidden about the rooms, will be enjoyed. The one
who finds the most may be rewarded either by some trifle like a pin-tray
or by a stick-pin in the form of a four-leaf clover or horseshoe; or, if
he is one of the younger Juniors, by a copy of that charming little
book for children, by Mrs. Annie Rix Militz, “The Wonderful Wishers of
Wishing-Well.”

Again the Juniors may be seated in their horseshoe row, and play the
game of “wishes and results,” which is quite different from the other
wishing game. Each is given a slip of paper and a pencil, and is asked
to write his greatest wish. These slips are then collected and others
passed, on which each player answers the question, “What do you think
would happen if you should have your wish?” These “results” are
collected as were the wishes, and after thoroughly mixing the slips, but
keeping the two sets separate, each set is numbered from one up, and the
wishes and results are then read in pairs, according to number; the
results, as might be expected, often proving amusingly inappropriate to
the wishes.

Refreshments may be apples roasted and corn popped by the Juniors
themselves, to which may be added nuts, lemonade, and cookies in the
shape of horseshoes and four-leaf clovers. Just before the close, the
good-luck fairy or some other “grown-up” should give a short talk
clearly explaining the truth that every person really controls his own
“luck,” and saying that a magical recipe will be given to each Junior on
starting for home, which, if followed, will keep him always fortunate.
This “recipe,” typewritten and handed to each in an addressed envelope
labeled “Good-Luck Recipe,” is the definition of “luck” given by Max
O’Rell, as follows:

“Luck means rising at six o’clock in the morning, living on a dollar a
day if you earn two, minding your own business, and not meddling with
other people’s. Luck means the appointments you have never failed to
keep, the trains you have never failed to catch. Luck means trusting in
God and your own resources.”




Making Valentines.


If some of the Juniors wish to surprise their friends, or the inmates of
their pet charitable institutions, with kind thoughts in the form of
valentines, those made by themselves are sure to be most acceptable; and
then, too, it is such fun to make them!

The materials needed are white and colored paper, including gilt and
silver paper, also paste and scissors. One has first to cut the colored
paper into squares, which may then be folded into quarters and the
quarters into triangles; then cut these into all kinds of intricate
tracery, and they will be pretty when unfolded, for the repetition gives
beauty to the most awkward cutting. Next paste them on a background of
white, and decorate them with mottoes or with tiny doves and hearts, in
gold.

One little girl even attempted to cut out a Cupid for a very special
valentine, to be given to her grandma; and, although the Cupid was a
little lop-sided, it was still quite imposing. Another wee girl, the
little sister of one of the Juniors, made good use of her kindergarten
skill by _sewing_ a valentine! Her sister prepared it for her by cutting
a heart about three inches across, from a piece of folded paper; using
this as a pattern, she marked around it on a piece of cardboard, made a
small oblong in the centre, for a picture-frame, and pricked the outline
for the five-year-old to sew with blue silk. This was accomplished with
much delight, and with a stamp picture of the giver pasted in the centre
of the oblong was as pretty a valentine as need be.

One favorite kind, the “window” valentine, was made by taking a square
of paper, doubling it and cutting one straight slit half-way across from
centre to the outside; then folding it once the other way--into
quarters--and cutting off the corner so as, when unfolded, to make a
square opening in the centre, with its corners opposite the sides of the
larger square. While the paper was folded in quarters, a third slit was
cut, parallel with the last one. When unfolded, this brought strips each
side, which were folded back on the outside of the valentine; a picture
was pasted back of the opening, and the valentine looked like this:

[Illustration: WINDOW VALENTINE]

Another was made to represent the front of a house, with a “Welcome”
door-mat and a door that opened and disclosed a photograph of the giver.
On the door was inscribed,

    “Open this door, and you will find
    One who would be your valentine.”

Still another represented a dainty lady on horseback just ready to jump
through a paper hoop held by a clown. Underneath was the verse,

    “Jump through this paper hoop of mine,
    And find your own true valentine.”

The paper in the hoop concealed a photograph. Of course it should be
explained to the children that valentines containing photographs are
supposed to be for relatives.

One of the prettiest surprises of all on the occasion of which I am
speaking, was a wonder-box, made from a piece of heavy paper six inches
across. Fastened securely in a most mysterious way, and with bits of
candy rattling tantalizingly inside, it was a delightful, but not an
easy, task, to open it, even to those who knew how.

[Illustration]

The diagram shows by dotted lines exactly where the paper squares must
be folded, and the heavy lines show where it must be cut. The holes are
for the corners, folded small, to be put through, and then straightened
out again.

This is the way the wonder-box looks when done:

[Illustration: WONDER-BOX (Closed)]

It would be as good for a Christmas present as for a valentine.




A New Kind of Dinner-Party.


This was one of the invitations:

  DEAR BERTOL:

  I hope you will not think it odd if I ask you to be either a
  table-furnishing or something to eat at my dinner-party. Will you be
  kind enough to be served at my house two weeks from to-night; that is,
  Tuesday, October sixth, nineteen hundred and three, at half-past
  seven? And, if you accept, will you not please let me know what you
  choose to be?

  Hungrily your friend,
  L. BETTINA ARNED.

  _45 Muscovy Street,
  Tuesday, September twenty-second._

About thirty children came. Of course there were more girls than boys
(there always are); still, the boys could be discovered without a
microscope. Some of the guests were these:

1. Mock Turtle (soup). A boy with green cloth slippers on hands and
feet, and a green oval cardboard shield on front and back. He wore green
trousers and stockings, green tissue-paper hair, and green goggles.

2. Black Bass. A boy in burnt cork dressed like a negro singer. On a
card hung about his neck was drawn a bar of music showing “bass” notes.

3. Duck. A little girl in a white duck dress.

4. Turkey. A boy in a fez and Turkish clothes--orange sash, baggy red
jacket and trousers, and pointed shoes. He wore an immense burnt-cork
mustache.

5. Game. A girl carried a checker-board under one arm and a pachisi
board under the other.

6. Hare. A girl with her “hair” worn long.

7. Pear. Two girls kept hold of hands all the evening.

8. Sole (the fish). A girl wearing a card on which was pasted the
picture of a shoe-sole.

9. Whitebait. A boy dressed in white (not duck, however). He carried a
short bamboo fish-pole. The hook end of the line was fastened about his
neck.

10. Chinaware. A girl in Chinese clothes.

As soon as a guest arrived he was given a numbered sheet and a pencil,
and was told to guess--without exchanging hints with his neighbors--what
everybody else was supposed to be. The reward for the longest list was
an angel-cake, and for the shortest a stick of barber-pole candy, tied
with bright green ribbon. Really, there were two dinner-parties that
evening, for while the lists were being counted Mrs. Arned served
lemonade and crackers.




Jack-Knife and Scissors Party.


The boys all bring their jack-knives, of course, and the girls their
scissors. Other tools and materials, provided by the committee, are a
pile of white pine boards knocked from old boxes; a bundle of
tissue-paper and crape paper; some cardboard; a pot of glue; some wire,
pins, tacks, small nails, and hammers. Rewards are offered to the boy
and the girl who at the end of two hours have made the most useful or
ingenious articles.

There is a wide range. Wooden spoons, plates, toothpicks,
paper-cutters, dolls, toy boats and sleds, statuettes (!), window-sash
supporters, and tabourettes; tissue-paper lanterns, mats, valentines,
bouquets, and dresses for some of the wooden dolls; these form only a
partial list of the result of one such contest. Ingenious Juniors will
delight in inventing new and astonishing effects in both paper and wood.
“The American Boy’s Handy Book” and “The American Girl’s Handy Book”
would be suitable rewards. After their arduous toil the workers will
appreciate a lunch of sandwiches, fruit, and lemonade. The articles made
may be either given to some charitable institution or saved for a
Christmas tree or fair given by the Juniors. The latter plan will
generally prove more desirable, as only a few of the articles would be
as suitable for inmates of any one institution as they would be for
those of private homes.




Reception at Curlycue Castle.


Invite the Juniors to a reception at Curlycue Castle, giving date, hour,
and street address, but no other particulars. When they arrive, they are
introduced to the Queen--or King--of the Curlycues. This important
personage is dressed in a more or less fantastic costume, in which the
most conspicuous feature is profuse ringlets made of lovely light golden
shavings; and carries a sceptre or wand, which in explaining the games,
etc., is waved about in a style full of curves and curls, peculiarly its
own.

The Juniors are suitably welcomed, and in a brief address the habits
and customs of the singular, newly discovered race of people called
Curlycues are explained to them, and they are informed that for the next
two or three hours they are to consider themselves as belonging to the
same race. Each is furnished with a long shaving curl, which badge of
honor the newly made Curlycue, whether girl or boy, is expected to wear
throughout the occasion.

Tell them the Curlycues are expert in shooting at a mark--whether they
always hit it or not; that they have been much troubled by certain small
wild animals called “excuses” which are found in the woods about the
castle; and that occasionally these animals become so bold that they
make themselves great nuisances, creeping into the castle itself, and
hindering the Curlycues about their work and study. Then call all the
Curlycues to an excuse-hunt.

In a large unfurnished room have a target almost half covering one side
of the room. Have it prepared in advance with drawings of a number of
comical faces, each plainly labelled with the name of some foolish
excuse, such as “I didn’t think,” “He dared me to,” “Just this once,”
“No one will know,” “She did it first,” “He began it,” “I don’t want
to,” “I’m afraid,” “Wait till to-morrow,” “In a minute,” “By and by,” “I
forgot,” “I can’t.” Truly a formidable array! Of course it should be
explained that the most of these are entire strangers to the Juniors,
but as Curlycues they are privileged to hunt them out and shoot them on
the spot.

Each hunter is supplied with a bow and three arrows, and is told to see
how many excuses he can dispose of. Some excuses count more than others
in the score. This may be arranged at the discretion of the Junior
superintendent. For instance, each excuse might count five, except “I
forgot” and “Wait till to-morrow,” each of which might count ten. If a
hunter has shot a certain excuse, it does not debar the rest from having
a try at the same one if they wish. As in real life, each excuse may
have to be killed several times over. The Curlycue who scores the most
with his three trials is the winner.

After all have had a chance, and the excuses are pretty well disposed
of, the children will enjoy a “Curlycue drawing-contest.” Give them
paper and pencils, and tell them each to draw a Curlycue; that is, it
must be explained, a single line about two inches long containing one or
more crooks or curves. Exchange the papers, and let each draw a picture,
using in it the line already drawn. Twenty minutes, or a half-hour, if
preferred, may be the time-limit. A small reward may then be given for
the best drawing.

A lively piano march now calls the Curlycues to their feet. They form in
single file, and follow their leader in a very whimsical and circuitous
march, finally bringing up at the dining-room, where crullers or other
“curly” cakes are served, with milk or lemonade. Or the cakes might be
flat, with chocolate, pink, or white icing decorated with “Curlycues” in
another color.




“Polly Pitcher” Social.


This is a missionary “jug-breaking” in which the mite-boxes, in the form
of tiny gilded jugs or pitchers, are all fastened to various portions of
an imposing rag or pillow doll, the size of a grown person, if possible,
named “Polly Pitcher.” Polly is fond of jewelry, and wears bracelets,
necklace, earrings, and even a nose-ring, all composed of the
mite-boxes.

As the Juniors know well for what purpose they have been saving, this is
a time for rejoicing and merrymaking rather than for set speeches. After
“Polly” has been despoiled of her treasures there may be, in another
room, a game of “Polly Pitcher bean-bag.” This is the way it is
arranged:

Have three bean-bags, two of them four inches; the other, five inches,
square; a hoop fifteen inches in diameter, wound with ribbon; suspend
this hoop from the ceiling by a ribbon loop tied to one side, from which
you are to hang a small bell so that it will swing in the centre of the
hoop.

Each Junior in turn is the “pitcher,” and in this case the bell is
“Polly.” The player takes the three bags, and throws them successively
through the hoop, trying not to disturb “Polly,” who will be sure to
protest every time that she is hit. The two smaller bags are thrown
first, then the larger one. Whenever the player succeeds in throwing a
bag through the hoop without disturbing “Polly” it counts ten; that is,
if the bag is one of the smaller ones. If it is the large one, it
counts twenty. Whenever Polly lets it be known that she is disturbed, it
takes off five from the pitcher’s score.

If there is time, other favorite games of the Juniors may be introduced.
But usually it will be found that la belle Polly is fascinating enough
to divide the honors about equally with her bejewelled namesake, and
that by the time the refreshments are over and the size of the
missionary fund is announced, the social may close with a few of the
Juniors’ brightest songs.




House-Book.


When my sister was a little girl, she had one play that always gave her
unfailing delight. It was her “house-book” as she called it, and I am
sure the Juniors, especially the younger ones, would enjoy the
fascinating play-work as much as she did, and the “houses” thus
concocted might be given to a children’s hospital, where they would
serve as fairy palaces for the tired little sufferers to dwell in.

The brown cover of Daisy’s house-book was nothing ornamental; in fact,
the book, to begin with, was a more or less blank one that had already
served its purpose in some commercial capacity. But that did not matter.
You opened it to the first page, and saw the front of the house,
outside, with its piazza and lawn. A hammock was swung somewhere,--I
forget whether it was on the lawn or the piazza,--and some very
distinguished-looking paper-doll people were going up the steps. Then
you turned over the leaf, and found yourself in the parlor, with rug,
chairs, and little tables, a piano, and all complete. Each page was a
room. Going on, you visited in turn the library, dining-room, kitchen,
and, I think, hall and stairs; then you took a peep into several
sleeping-rooms, and of course the most important room in the house was
the playroom, with two children in it, and toys of various kinds and
sizes, scattered about. Generally speaking, the furnishings were in
remarkably good proportion and well arranged; but the house lacked a
cellar. Perhaps it was in Florida, where cellars are seldom indulged in.

A house-book can be made as simple or as elaborate as one desires.
Pantries, cellar, china-closets, linen-closets, and attic might all be
included; and one could put a cheery-looking cook in the kitchen and a
trim maid with a ruffled apron in the dining-room, besides a large
family of children and the father and mother, and, if you like, the
grandfather and grandmother too. With such a wealth of pictures to
choose from as can be found in the different papers and advertising
sheets, very little need be left to the imagination. By all means set
the Juniors to making house-books, and by the time they have real houses
of their own to furnish, or even before, they will have acquired a very
good idea of what is needed and where to put it.




A Parlor Athletic Meet.


Send the Juniors an invitation reading somewhat like this:

  “You are invited to enter one or all of the athletic events of the
  Parlor Athletic Club, on Wednesday evening, November third, at 65
  Sycamore Street. Everybody will break training at the end of the meet.

  “BERTRAND C. FROST, _Field Marshal_.

  “_October twenty-fifth, 1903._”

As each guest enters the front door, the scorer should put down the
guest’s name, number it, and pin on his back a plainly numbered card. As
he enters the parlor or dining-room, a paper and pencil should be given
to him. The events should be plainly listed on a blackboard. The
announcer should say: “Will each competitor please write his number at
the head of his sheet, and under this the numbers, but not the names, of
the events which he means to enter? The more entries, the better. Hand
your sheets to me.”

Four judges (grown people are the best) can quickly make lists of the
people entering each event. Then the announcer should clear the field,
and the events should begin as promptly as possible. The following list
may be too long:

1. Taking the largest bite from an apple hung by a string. The hands of
the competitor must be held behind his back.

2. Holding the breath the longest without laughing.

3. Balancing a cane on one finger the longest.

4. Throwing bean-bags into a hole cut in a board. Fifteen feet is a good
distance. Each competitor should be allowed five bags.

5. Laughing in the most original manner.

6. A tickling-match. Two competitors should each be given a feather. One
hand must be held behind the back. An eight-foot circle is drawn. The
winner is he or she who stays the longer in the circle without making a
sound.

7. Hand-wrestling. Two people stand opposite each other, with legs
braced, and grasp each a hand, holding the other hand behind them. The
point is to jerk or pull your opponent in such a manner that he is
forced to move one of his feet.

8. Standing on one foot, on a chair, the longest. The right arm must be
held up straight, and not supported.

9. Sitting down on the floor, and getting up again most gracefully. The
arms must be folded.

10. Thrusting a cane through a swinging napkin-ring. The fewest thrusts
count the most.

11. Running up-stairs in the quickest time. Every stair must be used.

12. “Putting” the balloon. The competitor must stand in a seven-foot
circle, or come up to a line from not more than seven feet back, and
“put” a toy balloon as far ahead as possible. The distance must be
measured from the spot on the floor or ceiling where the balloon first
strikes, to the middle of the putting-edge of the circle or of the
putting-line.

13. Bending over and touching the ground with the palms of both hands.
The knees must not be bent. The point is to go over as many times as
possible.

Three places should be counted in each event. A first place should score
three points; a second place, two points; a third place, one point. The
largest reward should be given to the boy or girl having the largest
total score. Be sure to give rewards that either a boy or a girl would
like, for girls have a way of winning them when they have a good chance.




A Tropical Fair.


For decorations use the graceful Florida moss if it can be procured; if
not, tissue-paper orange blossoms are pretty. Palms and similar potted
plants may be placed here and there. Have a pond made of a large mirror
with the frame covered with foliage, and in or on the pond should be a
number of pond-lily needle-books and penwipers; these the Juniors can
easily make of white and green cloth for petals and leaves, with bits of
yellow wool in the centre. There may also be in the pond some
frog-shaped and alligator-shaped boxes made of wood with the bark left
on for the alligators, and finished in both cases to look as lifelike as
possible.

In the centre or at one side of the room have an orange grove. The
oranges are various small articles, each wrapped in a wad of cotton,
made as nearly round as possible, covered with orange-colored
tissue-paper and tied with a green string to the evergreen trees
composing the grove. Each purchaser is to select the orange he prefers,
paying a trifle for it.

Besides the pond and the orange grove there may be a lemonade-well
profusely decked with foliage, a booth where real oranges and other
tropical fruits are sold, another booth for cake and candies, one for
fancy-work, one for flowers, and a special one for fans, all having
suggestions of the tropics about them. If the orange scheme is to
predominate, the fancy-work booth should be filled with articles made in
shades of orange, and the cakes, candies, and ices may be flavored with
orange; the booths may be draped in orange and white, and the girls in
charge of them should wear white dresses with orange ribbons. In the
grove should be seats and small tables where refreshments can be served
as ordered.

This will be found no more trouble to prepare, on the whole, than most
ordinary fairs, and is much prettier.




Washington’s Birthday.


In Miss Alcott’s “Jack and Jill” are described several good tableaux
taken from scenes in the life of Washington. The cherry-tree episode is
delightful; Washington crossing the Delaware, exciting; and the
“Daughters of Liberty,” the “Surrender of Cornwallis,” the pathetic camp
scene, “Washington at Trenton,” the Washington family, and the simulated
statue of the “Minuteman,” all very effective. The detailed description
would take too much space here, but the book is to be found in most
libraries; and, even if it is not obtainable, the subjects may prove
suggestive, and are all within the ability of children or quite young
people.

Many, however, will prefer games. Did you ever play “cherry-tree blind
man’s buff”? For this you will want twenty or more candied cherries, and
an impromptu cherry-tree, which may be the bough of an evergreen placed
upright in a flower-pot or a box. Tie the cherries to the branches with
bits of silk thread a few inches long. Blindfold the Juniors one at a
time; turn the blindfolded one around three times; give him a pair of
scissors; and tell him to clip all the cherries he can from the tree,
allowing him three minutes for the trial. He must not feel for the tree
with his hands, but simply reach out with the scissors and clip where he
thinks the cherries are. A little box of candied fruit is given as a
reward to the one who succeeded in clipping the most cherries.

On one occasion of this kind the “yarn-spinning contest” described
originally in the “spinning social” of “Eighty Pleasant Evenings” was
included, the guests each trying to tell the most improbable story. But
instead of the most successful story-teller’s being honored with the
title of “fibmaster-general,” the reward was quite unexpectedly
presented to the one who had told the _poorest_ story, on the ground
that Washington was a poor hand at telling stories and to be like him is
a mark of patriotism worthy of reward.

“Burying the hatchet” is suggestive of all sorts of peaceful things,
but is in reality quite a lively contest. Divide the company into two
sections. Have ready one of the little hatchet-shaped candy-boxes, to be
had at most confectioners’ about February 22. One division of the
Juniors leaves the room; the other division hides the hatchet; and the
outside party returns, and tries in five guesses to locate it. If
successful, their side wins a point; if not, they win nothing. The two
divisions change places, the first hiders of the hatchet going out of
the room and becoming the guessers. Each side has three turns,
alternating in this way. The side which has then won most points
receives the hatchet filled with bonbons.

A “Washington quiz” historic in character, might be included, with such
questions as the following:

  1. In what State was Washington born?

  2. In what year was he born?

  3. Did George attend any college?

  4. Who sent him on his famous journey through the wilderness?

  5. What position did he hold under Braddock?

  6. How did he act when complimented first on his military service?

  7. In what year was he made commander-in-chief of the Continental
  army?

  8. Where did he spend the winter of 1777?

  9. When was he elected president?

  10. How long did he hold the presidency?

  11. Where did he die?

  12. Did he hold slaves?

  13. Did he approve of slavery?

  14. What became of his slaves after their master’s death?

  15. By whom was he called “First in war, first in peace, and first in
  the hearts of his countrymen”?

  ANSWERS.--1. Virginia. 2. 1732. 3. No. 4. Governor Dinwiddie. 5.
  Aide-de-camp. 6. Blushed, stammered, and could not speak. 7. 1775. 8.
  Valley Forge. 9. 1789. 10. For two terms of four years each. 11. At
  Mount Vernon. 12. Yes. 13. No. 14. They were set free. 15. Henry Lee,
  in a resolution presented in the House of Representatives.

Little paper flags tinted red, white, and blue were used in one such
test, the questions being written upon the reverse side.

For refreshments, serve lemonade with canned cherries dropped into it,
and fancy crackers or cakes in the form of little hatchets.




For the First of April.


Perhaps one of the Juniors has a printing-press; if so, this is a good
chance to use it.

Print hand bills asking “all the wise people” in town to come to your
entertainment to be given the evening of April 1, naming the hall and
the price of admission.

Tickets should be distributed when asked for; as the hand-bills should
announce, the tickets of admission are to be at a certain price, payable
at the door as you go out, after the entertainment is over. This plan is
in keeping with the rest of the evening, and is also partly to reassure
any who suspect that an April First entertainment might be so complete a
hoax as not to take place at all.

Have a poster at the entrance of the hall, warning every one, “Who
enters here must leave all sense behind.”

The decorations are truly unique. Rugs, strips of carpets, and an
occasional chair ornament the walls, while pictures and posters are hung
up on the floor. A curtain might be gracefully draped along the floor of
the platform. Everything, as far as possible, is in the place usually
assigned to something else.

Programmes printed all sides up with care, and as unexpected in
typographical arrangement as the furnishings, should be handed around.
The announcement at the top of the page should be in small type, the
rest in larger size; the margin should vary in width from line to line,
each paragraph beginning at the edge of the sheet; and every sentence
must begin with a period and end with a capital. The Juniors, with a
little suggestion now and then, will find this part of the work great
fun, and will learn some things regarding correct rules of printing in
the very effort to break them.

The first thing on the programme is, of course, the good-night speech,
thanking the audience for their kind attention and generous applause,
and inviting them, before leaving, to partake of refreshments. The menus
that are then passed may contain all sorts of possible and impossible
dishes, but the refreshments themselves must be always something widely
different from what was ordered. For instance, if one orders quail on
toast, coffee, and layer cake, he is likely to get a cheese sandwich, a
pickle, and a glass of water, with the grave assurance that these dishes
were exactly the ones that he ordered.

After the refreshments the programme is rendered. “A recitation by
little Edith Jones” proves to be some time-honored selection like “Mary
had a little lamb,” or “You’d scarce expect one of my age,” recited in a
childish lisp and high key, by the largest, tallest boy in the society;
in fact, one of the seniors may have to be called upon for this honor,
as he should be, if possible, more than six feet tall. “A patriotic
address by General Wynhart” should be, on the contrary, a particularly
captivating dialogue or duet by two pretty little girls, or a motion
song by several tiny tots. “A violin solo by Signor Grateforio” is a
song by a quartette. “A bass solo, ‘Rocked in the cradle of the deep,’
by Professor Rorer,” should be a little girl’s lullaby to her doll, very
soft and sweet. “Grand chorus by four hundred voices” may be a violin
solo. And so with the whole programme, ending with the address of
welcome. Aim to have many really fine numbers, but see to it that every
one is something unexpected.

As the people go out, the spirit of fun will have so thoroughly taken
possession of them that it will be a wonder if there are no buttons or
similar treasures offered as the price of admission, or rather of
escape; but not many would be so mean, and then it need not be accepted,
for, when asked, every one will be obliged to admit that he has had his
quarter’s worth of fun.




Letter Social.


Label each Junior with a letter on his arrival. This may be done by
having ready in advance small cards, each with a letter plainly painted
on it and with a ribbon loop attached, to be pinned on the dress or hung
around the neck. In preparing the letters omit V, X, and Z, and make
several copies apiece of the letters in most common use.

First, the Juniors may see what words they can form by grouping
themselves according to their letters. For instance, a Junior labelled
with F goes and finds one with O, and together they have made one word,
“of”; then these two group themselves with a third labelled R, and by
rearranging the order they have “for”; then by finding successively T,
H, and U, they have “fort,” “forth,” and “fourth,” etc. No group may
discard a letter once accepted, nor add one that will not make a
correctly spelled word, but they may rearrange the order of their
letters as often as they wish. At the end of a stated time the group
that has the longest word has won the game, which might be known as
“word-building.”

Another letter contest, with the same labels, is perhaps still more
interesting. It is called the “Alphabetical Question Game.” One of the
Juniors asks another a question. The answer must begin with the letter
worn by the one replying, and must be given before the questioner can
count ten slowly and distinctly. If the one questioned fails to reply in
time, or starts his reply with a wrong letter, the questioner takes his
letter from him and adds it to his own. All players supplied with one or
more letters may go about asking questions in this way, but two must not
question the same player at once, and no one may give the same answer
twice. A player may answer from any of the letters that he is wearing;
and, if a player loses his only letter, he is supplied with another, but
not more than twice. When time is up, the player having the most letters
is the winner.

A game of “letter tag” is one in which the vowels all chase the
consonants. Each Junior wearing a vowel is given a particular corner for
his “den.” There is also a general goal. At a signal the vowels start in
pursuit of the consonants, all circling the room in the same direction.
Those consonants that escape to the goal without being overtaken are
safe for the first run; those tagged are obliged to return with their
captors to the respective “dens” and remain there until the end of the
game. After a certain number of these runs the vowel that has captured
the most consonants is pronounced Czar, or Czarina, as the case may be.
But this is not all. The players remain where they are. Paper and a
pencil are given to each vowel, and the one that can make the longest
list of words, using only his own letter and his captive consonants, is
the final winner, and receives the reward.

By this time both vowels and consonants will be ready for refreshments,
which may consist of lemonade and fancy alphabet crackers, or cakes with
lettered icing. A few songs and recitations may be introduced to add
variety; and a pleasing exercise for the close would be “The Juniors’
Message to All,” given as follows:

Select eight of the Juniors who are rather slender, about the same
height, and dressed in white. Take off their labels. Placing a large
screen temporarily before them, or closing the sliding doors between
them and their expectant audience, arrange them in front of a dark
curtain or other background in such positions that they will themselves
form letters of white, spelling a short word easily recognized. It is
not very difficult, but you will need to experiment a little. For the
first letter, one Junior stands facing the audience for the upright
part, another sits on the floor just behind, facing the right; for the
second letter, two Juniors curve themselves as completely as possible
around a hoop which they both hold, the open part toward the audience;
for the third, two stand leaning away from each other, with hands or a
string tightly clasped to keep from falling; for the fourth, the same
arrangement as the first except that the standing Junior reaches one arm
straight out at the side, toward the right of the audience, and the
seated one also reaches one arm partly out in the same direction. Remove
the screen when you have them arranged to your satisfaction, and the
other children will recognize, in living letters of white, the word
“LOVE,” which is the Juniors’ message to all.




The Tuffet and the Web

A Fantasy in Two Acts and Two Scenes

BY VINCENT VAN MARTER BEEDE

    “Little Miss Muffet
    Sat on a tuffet,
            Eating curds and whey.
    There came a black spider,
    And sat down beside her,
            And frightened Miss Muffet away.”


People of the Play

  LITTLE MISS MUFFET, _Queen of the Meadow_.
  THE BLACK SPIDER.
  THE FLY.
  THE CRICKET.
  THE WISE MOLE.
  THREE FIELD-MICE.
  SIX LITTLE DAIRYMAIDS.
  THREE ELVES, _boys_.
  THREE SPRITES, _girls_.
  SIX RABBITS, _three boys and three girls_.

ACT I.--The Meadow.

ACT II.--The Spider’s Web.

(_A constant undertone of music throughout the whole play._)


Costumes

LITTLE MISS MUFFET: A dainty little girl of ten, with long hair and a
daisy garland. Short frock of white or sky-blue, bare legs, and socks to
match the frock. White slippers.

SPIDER: A stout boy of twelve, in tight-fitting, shiny black from head
to foot. Jet ornaments sewed here and there. Black mittens. Swarthy
face, black beard, large smoked goggles, top-hat, the worse for wear.

FLY: A slim boy of nine, in tight green clothes. A long-tailed coat,
with brass buttons, green long hose, green slippers, rainbow wings. The
wings can be made much as a kite is made. A green skull-cap.

CRICKET: A boy of the same age as the Fly, but a trifle larger. Plain
loose black jacket and loose knickerbockers, black shoes, black
skull-cap, brown wings. There should be brown patches here and there, as
if the fellow were poor.

MOLE: A boy of twelve, in gray--very dark gray--flannel knickerbockers
and a gray cloak. Spectacles, fur cap, shovel under one arm.

FIELD-MICE: Boys smaller than the Mole. Brown, loose-fitting jackets and
knickerbockers, torn black stockings, black tails (cloth wound over
rope).

DAIRYMAIDS: Six little girls from ten to twelve, in low-necked white
frocks. Bare arms. White stockings, mob-caps and aprons.

ELVES: Boys from eight to ten, in tightly fitting clothes. One boy in
red, another in white, another in blue. Long hose. Pointed caps, cloth
over cardboard. Wide sashes to match the costumes.

SPRITES: Girls of the same ages as the Elves. Short frocks, low neck,
short sleeves. Colors of frocks: yellow, violet, and orange. Garlands of
wild-flowers, gold and silver wands.

RABBITS: Girls and boys of the same ages as the fairies. Boys.--Loose,
light-gray flannel jackets and knickerbockers, and hoods with long ears
which either stand up straight or stand out at right angles. They can be
stiffened with little bamboo sticks. Short gray tails. White stockings.
Girls.--White flannel hoods, ears, jackets, skirts, and stockings.


Scenery

ACT I. Back scene to represent a blue sky. A green carpet should be
spread, and over it grass or hay should be scattered. The tuffet is a
tiny stool made of rough wood; or the stool may be a handsome gilded
one, with a cushion of yellow silk. The Spider should let himself down
from a beam which the audience cannot see. Great care should be taken
that the beam is strong, and the rope securely fastened to the beam and
about the Spider’s waist.


ACT I.

  SCENE.--_The Meadow. Music. A birthday party in honor of_ LITTLE MISS
  MUFFET, _who at the rise of the curtain is discovered on her tuffet,
  centre_. _Left, a number of baskets. Dance of the_ SIX LITTLE
  DAIRYMAIDS.

MUFFET (_when the dance is done_). That was a beautiful dance, dear
friends. Thank you ever so much. I notice that the four-o’clocks at my
feet are opening, so that it is time for our guests to arrive.

FIRST DAIRYMAID. How fortunate that there are no ugly black clouds in
the sky!

MUFFET. Please, please do not use the word “black” any oftener than you
cannot help. It reminds me of that horrible, crawly, eight-legged
creature who lives in a--ugh!--in a web!

SECOND DAIRYMAID. Pardon me, Miss Muffet, but is it true that the Sp----
I mean that this creature dropped down from a tree the other day and
asked you to be his Queen, and live in his--den?

MUFFET. Yes, yes, of course, it’s true; but change the subject, I beg of
you. (_Enter_, _left_, FLY; _right_, CRICKET. _They advance toward_
MUFFET, _glowering angrily at each other. Each kisses a hand of_ MUFFET
_at the same moment_.) I am so glad you could come, both of you.

FLY (_pointing at_ CRICKET). What is _he_ here for, I’d like to know?

CRICKET (_pointing at_ FLY). And what is _he_ here for, pray?

MUFFET. O, I do hope you won’t quarrel--to-day, especially. I think a
great deal of you both; don’t I, Dairymaids?

DAIRYMAIDS. Of course you do!

FLY. That’s the worst news I could possibly hear, Miss Muffet. Do you
mean to say that you like that plain black fellow better than you do me?
Why, just look at my wings! I really think you might choose me as your
King of the Meadow!

CRICKET. How can you listen to such talk, Miss Muffet? That Fly is
nothing but a vain popinjay, strutting and buzzing around! _He_ can’t
sing. I’m the right kind of King for you, every time!

FLY (_angrily_). Bzzzzzzzzzz!

CRICKET. There! Did you ever hear a more disagreeable racket?

MUFFET (_covering her face with her hands_). O, what shall I do? My
birthday party is being spoiled!

DAIRYMAIDS (_covering their faces with their hands_). Yes, her party is
being spoiled!

  (CRICKET _and_ FLY _disdainfully fold their arms, and turn their backs
  on each other. Music. Enter, right, in a dignified manner_, WISE MOLE
  _and_ THREE FIELD-MICE. _They bow low before_ MISS MUFFET.)

MUFFET. How glad I am to see you, Wise Mole, and you dear counsellors,
the Field-Mice! What should I do without you all to guide me when I get
into trouble?

MOLE. You have evidently been weeping, my dear Queen--and on your
birthday, too! What dreadful thing can have happened? (_Looking about
uneasily._) Surely you have not seen the black Spider again?

MUFFET AND DAIRYMAIDS. O, no, no, no!

MOLE. Tell me about it, whatever it may be.

MUFFET. Why, I cannot make up my mind which I would prefer for a
husband--the Cricket, or the Fly. One has a beautiful song; the other,
beautiful wings. They are both angry, and insist on knowing which one
shall sit upon the tuffet with me.

  (MOLE _and_ FIELD-MICE _put their heads together_.)

MOLE. It is our opinion that the tuffet is not big enough for more than
one person, so that neither the Fly nor the Cricket can claim your hand.
Come, be friends! (_Putting the hands of the rivals together. They shake
hands not very cordially, while the_ DAIRYMAIDS _applaud_.)

MUFFET. O goody--goody! Now we can go on in peace! (_Music. Enter,
left_, RABBITS; _right_, FAIRIES. MUFFET _stands up on her tuffet, and
kisses her hands to the newcomers_. CRICKET, _right_; FLY, _left_; MOLE
_and_ FIELD-MICE _right of stage_.) Welcome to my meadow and my party!

DAIRYMAIDS. Welcome! Welcome!

  (_Music. Dance of the_ FAIRIES _and the_ RABBITS. _The_ DAIRYMAIDS
  _stand in a row at rear, clapping time_.)

MUFFET (_seating herself when the dance is over_). Sit down, my dear
guests, and have some of the curds and whey which the dear Dairymaids
have provided.

  (_Music. The_ DAIRYMAIDS _take out from their baskets, left, spoons,
  bowls, and jars of curds and whey. They serve_ MUFFET _first.
  Rumbling, thundering music._ SPIDER _lets himself down directly over_
  MUFFET _by means of his “thread” (rope), and lands at side of Queen,
  whom he tries to embrace._ MUFFET _and all her guests jump up,
  screaming. Stampede, left._ SPIDER, _quite deserted, seats himself on
  the tuffet. Low music._)

SPIDER (_untying the “thread” from his body. The thread is drawn upward,
out of sight_). I’ll have her yet! She’s a pretty little thing. I’m
bound that she shall sit in my parlor and spin for me all day long! My
web shall be the largest and silkiest in the wide world. I have no time
for spinning. I would much rather be eating nice fat flies. I’m hungry
for one at this moment. Ah, but I saw a dainty specimen standing at Miss
Muffet’s side. Burrrrrooooo! I’m furious to think that the Queen and her
guests have escaped me! (FAIRIES _peep out, laughing_.) Who dares to
laugh at Me, the King of the Web? (_The_ FAIRIES _dart out on stage,
right_.)

FIRST ELF. You’re it for tag, Spider, old boy!

  (_Exeunt_ FAIRIES, _right_. SPIDER _gives chase. Enter cautiously,
  left_, MUFFET _carrying her bowl of curds and whey, and_ FLY. MUFFET
  _seats herself on her tuffet, looking about fearfully_.)

MUFFET. Has the horrid thing really gone away?

FLY (_protectingly, but stammering with fright_). Of c-c-course, Miss
Muffet, I-I will pro-protect you. (_He tries to sit on the tuffet._)

MUFFET. No, my dear Fly, there is room for only one on the tuffet, you
know.

FLY. How can I show my great love for you, my Queen of the Meadow?

MUFFET. By slaying the wicked black Spider, who has devoured so many of
your relatives, to say nothing of dragon-flies, caterpillars,
and--crickets.

FLY (_drawing his dagger_). I’ll give battle to the monster at once!
I’ll slay him single-handed, and wrap him up like a mummy in his own
web! Farewell! (_Music._ FLY _kisses the hand of_ MUFFET. _Exit_ FLY,
_right_. MUFFET _goes on eating her curds and whey_.)

CURTAIN.


ACT II.


  SCENE.--_The Spider’s Web. A dark, dungeon-like room. Straw on floor.
  Small door at left. Swords and spears hanging on rear wall.
  Spinning-wheel, centre. From it radiate many strands of web (colored
  string). As the curtain rises, the_ SPIDER _is spinning at his wheel.
  Noise of some one coming rapidly up the stairs, left._

SPIDER (_jumping to his feet_). Hark! An enemy!

  (_Takes down sword from wall. Brandishing the weapon, he retreats into
  a further corner, right, where he squats down. Door bursts open.
  Enter_ FLY _with a drawn sword_.)

FLY. Bzzzzzzzzzz! This is thy last hour, thou foul black Spider fiend!

  (_A terrific encounter with swords. The web is partially cut down.
  Finally_ SPIDER _and_ FLY _grapple_. SPIDER _puts_ FLY _on his back,
  holds him down, and binds him with web. Just as he picks up his sword
  and prepares to give_ FLY _his death-blow, a great trampling is heard
  on the stairs, and at a blast from a fairy trumpet enter_ CRICKET,
  _followed by_ FAIRIES, RABBITS, MOLE, _and_ FIELD-MICE, _all armed to
  the teeth_.)

CRICKET. At him, my men! And to the rescue of the Fly!

  (ELVES _and_ RABBITS _throw themselves on_ SPIDER, _overcome him, and
  bind him, hand and foot, in his web. Meanwhile_, SPRITES _release_
  FLY. _Enter_ MISS MUFFET _and_ DAIRYMAIDS.)

MUFFET. Poor Fly! To think that I allowed you to attack the black Spider
single-handed! I can never forgive myself! I hope that I have sent aid
in time! Are you wounded?

FLY. My wings are somewhat snipped; that’s all.

MOLE (_holding a sword to the_ SPIDER’S _throat_). Will you promise by
your eight legs to spin nothing hereafter but beautiful garments for
Little Miss Muffet, Queen of the Meadow?

SPIDER (_in a meek, choked voice_). I promise.

CRICKET. Remember, you are never to spin another web as long as you
live! I don’t care to have any more of my relatives entrapped.

SPIDER. I promise.

FLY. Do you promise to eat no more flies as long as you live?

SPIDER. I do.

MOLE. Very well, Elves, I appoint you as guards for the black Spider
over night. In the morning I will send around two Roosters whom I know.
For a reasonable salary of corn I am sure they will consent to keep an
eye on him hereafter.

MUFFET. Dear Fly, I like you all the better now that you have so bravely
bearded the black Spider in his web. Never again will he attempt to sit
beside me! (_Spider groans._)

CRICKET. But what about me?

MUFFET. As for you, my dear Cricket, I like you just as much as I do the
Fly, because you have led the expedition which rescued him and captured
that horrid thing. (_Spider groans._) Now, friends all, let us go back
to the meadow, and finish our curds and whey.

(_Music._)

CURTAIN.




A Barrel Brigade.


In a little Ohio farming community the children of Junior age have many
bright plans of work, and one of them is a barrel brigade. That is not
what they called it, I think; but the name fits so well that we will let
it stand, and I know that many Junior societies will like the plan.
Probably some of them are already trying it in one form or another, but
for those who have not thought of it here is a new field of usefulness
of the kind that brings “that comfortable feeling” both to the workers
and to those to whom the barrel is a welcome and sometimes unexpected
source of supply.

The particular barrel brigade mentioned meets regularly, either monthly
or oftener, on Saturday afternoons, for sewing and other business
necessary for their purpose, which is to fill a barrel each year, to be
sent to some poor family or families, either near or far, perhaps to
some struggling missionary’s household where the little ones are more
numerous than the ways of providing for them.

From the materials at their disposal the children prepare and put in all
kinds of things that they think will add to the comfort of those
receiving them. Take an imaginary peep into one of these barrels, and
you will see something like the following array--if you dig deep
enough!--warm crocheted mittens, babies’ socks, hoods, and even shawls;
children’s clothing, now become too small for some of the rapidly
growing first owners; reading-matter of various kinds; a few toys
sprinkled in here and there, not always new, but so carefully repaired
by the young carpenters, painters, and seamstresses as to look like new
or even better; aprons, holders, and dish-towels; bright home-made rugs,
cushions, and even a patchwork quilt, for some of the little girls are
as fond as were their grandmothers of cutting calico into little pieces
for the sake of sewing it together again. Never mind; this is not so
foolish as it may seem, for the quilt is warm, most of the pieces were
bits left over from gowns, and surely the old-fashioned “quilting-bee”
must have been royal fun for the brigade.

When all else is packed, a generous storekeeper usually contributes
several pairs of shoes and rubbers, and other small articles, just to
“fill in the chinks.” The shoes, of course, are selected, according to
sizes previously learned, to fit the different pairs of feet that they
are to cover. And, if some larger articles are contributed also, the
hearts of the brigade are still further rejoiced.

Any Junior society, whether in city or in country, could have a “barrel
brigade,” and with very little expense collect and prepare things so
useful and appropriate for the particular family or persons that are to
receive them that the practical value would prove worth many times the
cost. The barrel’s contents will vary according to the need, and also
according to the materials at hand; but it is hardly necessary to say
that food, if at all perishable, should not be included if the barrel
is to go by freight, as it is likely to be a long time on the way.
Clothing, reading-matter, and many other home comforts can be packed and
sent with safety.




Parlor Mountain-Climb.


Decorate the room with such mountain flowers and foliage as can be
procured, and order in advance of a stationer enough favors for all the
Juniors, each favor, when pulled, to reveal some article of
travelling-costume in crape paper or tissue-paper that will suggest
mountain-climbing. They might all be odd mountain hats of various colors
and kinds, the Alpine predominating; or some of them might be long
travelling-cloaks.

For the first half or three-quarters of an hour have a stereopticon talk
on the people and scenery of the Alps, giving pictures of Swiss peasants
and their cottages, and interspersing story and incident to add to the
interest. Follow this with a little appropriate music; a “Swiss bells”
instrumental selection and one or two pretty mountain songs like “The
Herdsman’s Mountain Home” would be good.

Then the Juniors are presented with their “travelling-bags,” as the
favors may be called, and are told to open them by pulling, and that
they will find something to wear while climbing the mountain. When all
are dressed for the climb, the preparations are completed by giving each
an alpenstock, and arranging several hassocks, cushions, big books,
etc., in the path of the prospective climbers; for the “mountain-climb”
proves to be an obstacle race on one foot.

When this part of the fun is over, there may be a written question game,
involving more mountains. Here is a list that may prove suggestive:

  1. What mountain in Switzerland is a girl’s name?

  2. What mountain in North Carolina is a favorite relative of most
  Juniors?

  3. What mountains are full of maps?

  4. What mountain in Asia is the atmosphere and a small animal?

  5. What mountain in Wales was pelted by a storm?

  6. What mountain in Massachusetts reminds you of horseback-riding?

  7. What peak in Japan is the first syllable of a girl’s name and an
  exclamation?

  8. What mountains are household animals and also destroy life?

  9. What mountain in the Apennines is something that hurts, and the
  exclamation it causes?

  10. What mountain is a famous university?

  11. What mountains in Australia are a kitchen stove in good order?

  12. What mountains, if mixed, would make gray?

  13. What mountains could blow a loud blast?

  14. What hills in England are a kind of cloth?

  15. What mountain in Brazil is a musical instrument?

  16. What volcano in Sicily becomes a girl’s name by changing one
  letter?

  17. What mountains give light at night?

  18. What mountain is a Bible character?

  19. What mountains mean a pleasant day?

  20. What mountain makes a noise like a college yell?

  21. On what mountain did you eat your dinner?

  22. What Irish mountains are very sad?

  23. What mountain in Oregon is worn on the head?

  24. What mountain belongs to the baby?

  25. What mountains in Spain are a good kind of soap?

  26. What mountain in Palestine is a balm?

  27. What mountains in Texas could take a scalp?

  28. What mountains are dangerous to boats?

Following are the answers:

  1. Rosa.

  2. Grandfather.

  3. Atlas.

  4. Ararat.

  5. Snowdon.

  6. Saddleback.

  7. Jesso.

  8. Catskill.

  9. Corno.

  10. Harvard.

  11. Black Range.

  12. Black and White.

  13. Big Horn.

  14. Cheviot.

  15. Organ.

  16. Etna. (Edna.)

  17. Mountains of the Moon.

  18. St. Elias.

  19. Fairweather.

  20. Hooper. (Whooper.)

  21. Table.

  22. Mourne.

  23. Mt. Hood.

  24. Cradle.

  25. Castile.

  26. Gilead.

  27. Apache.

  28. Rocky.

To the Junior who has answered the most questions correctly a reward may
be given, perhaps some pretty little article of Swiss workmanship, a set
of the Perry Pictures comprising mountain views, or a book containing a
good story of mountain life.

Refreshments served in picnic style may be sandwiches, and berries
supposed to have been “picked on the mountains.” Close the evening with
singing.




Rainbow Social.


After a missionary meeting let the Juniors decide what missionary or
mission field they would like to help; then give to each a mite-box
marked with his own name, to hold missionary pennies. Some months
afterward, have your “rainbow social.”

Collect the missionary mite-boxes a few days before, and except on the
bottom, where the name is written, they may be gilded to suggest still
further the pot of gold to be found at the end of the rainbow.

The room where the social is to be held should be decorated with
tissue-paper in rainbow colors. Each Junior should have a rainbow chain,
made of the same material, hung around his neck. The refreshments should
have the rainbow colors, too--oranges, apples, olives, variegated
ice-cream, etc. The “rainbow” feature may be carried out in another way
by asking each one present to tell one bright story or happening, or
sing a verse of some bright song, or recite something cheering.

Tell the Juniors the story of the pot of fairy gold supposed to be at
the end of every rainbow. Then have your “rainbow hunt,” arranged with
ribbons as in the “red-line jubilee,” except that the ribbons are of
rainbow colors, and at each end is discovered one of their old friends,
the mite-boxes, transformed into a treasure of shining gold. The Juniors
may exchange them, if they wish, among themselves, until each one has
his own; then they are broken and the “gold” inside counted separately
and all together. Close the social with a bright missionary song, and
later, after devoting the money to the object determined upon, tell the
Juniors as much as possible of just how it was used, and why it must
have seemed to those receiving it like “fairy gold” indeed. By this time
the Juniors’ interest in missions will probably be so enthusiastic that
they will want to try it all over again.




Handkerchief Gymnastics.


There are still many girls, even in these hygienic times, who are not
fortunate enough to attend schools that have gymnasiums. For these the
Junior girls may like to help organize a class for the practice of
handkerchief gymnastics. The writer has made a thorough test of every
one of these exercises before recommending them, and knows them to be of
practical benefit. They are similar to those practised daily at Cornell
University.

More breath means more life, and some of these exercises are especially
good to promote deep breathing. Let each girl come provided with a large
handkerchief and a gymnasium suit, which is easily adapted from an old
dress having a loose blouse; nothing but the skirt will require change.

[Illustration]

Standing erect on the ball of the foot, grasp the handkerchief by
diagonally opposite corners, so that the hands will be about an arm’s
length from each other. At the beginning and end of each exercise the
handkerchief is to be only lightly stretched. A towel may be used
instead of the handkerchief if that should be preferred, holding it by
the ends instead of by the corners.

The following directions will show the different positions to be taken.
Do not overdo the matter; some of the little girls will require frequent
rests, and some will be eager to go on; hence it is sometimes well to
divide them into classes. While most of these positions are easily
understood from the directions, a few are more difficult to describe in
words. We illustrate certain ones.

[Illustration]

1. Arms extended straight forward, on a level with shoulder.

2. From position 1 bend the arms, and rise onto the toes. Extend the
arms and sink back from the toes. Repeat from five to ten times. This
exercise is especially adapted to produce deep breathing. The mouth must
be kept closed.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

3. From position 1 bend the left leg at the knee, and raise it till it
touches the towel. Same with right leg.

4. From position 1 extend the left leg sideways and swing the arms to
the left. Return to position 1.

5. Arms raised high above the head.

6. From position 5 bend the body at the hips, and lean as far forward as
possible, the body and the arms remaining in a straight line, the head
raised slightly, and the weight of the body resting on the toes.

7. From position 5 bend and extend the knees, keeping the body upright.

[Illustration]

8. From position 5 bend the left arm, and lower sideways the right one,
which is extended. The towel passes across the back. The left hand holds
the upper end of the towel back of the upper part of the arm, close to
the shoulder. Raise the arms back to position and repeat to the left,
the right arm being bent and left extended.

9. Arms lowered in front of the body.

10. From position 9 twist the body to the left, the feet remaining
unmoved, and at the same time raise the arms, keeping them extended,
until they are high above the head. In the same way repeat the exercise,
turning the body to the right.

[Illustration]

11. From position 5 bend the body forward, swinging the extended arms
as low as possible without bending the knees.

12. Towel directly in front of the forehead, the head and elbows back.

13. From position 12, with toes apart, charge forward with the left
foot, keeping the right knee straight, bringing the weight on the
forward foot; return to position by rising on the toes of the forward
foot and giving a slight spring.

14. From position 5 swing the arms forward, bending the body at the hips
and bending the knees. The feet, with toes apart, remain with the soles
flat on the floor; the arms rest on the knees; and the towel is near the
floor directly in front of the feet and as far forward as possible.

15. From position 9 the left arm, bent, is raised over the head in order
to raise the towel upward directly behind the back. The right arm
remains extended downward. The towel is raised by bending the right arm
and extending the left. After raising and lowering the towel some five
times reverse the process, the right arm bending above the head and the
left arm extending downward. Finally the towel moves up and down behind
the back, while deep breath is taken and held.

When the exercises are once learned, they are the best of tonics, and
all the more exhilarating if done to music when the class is together.
The children should also be encouraged to practise them regularly at
home for perhaps five minutes just after the daily sponge-bath. The
older ones especially, whose increased school studies are beginning to
suggest round shoulders, will find the plan a great help. Their lessons
will be learned more quickly and easily because with the blood in active
circulation the brain will be clearer.




Bird Social.


Choose a pleasant, sunny room for your bird social, deck it with green
boughs and foliage, and provide places for a number of cages. Invite the
Juniors all to come, and ask those that have canaries or other pet birds
in cages to bring them. Of course this social must be held in the
daytime, and in mild if not warm weather. If the moving is done gently,
the birds will enjoy the social as much as the Juniors, or even more,
and you will have a gay concert. Let some experienced bird-owner give a
little talk to the Juniors on the best ways of caring for their birds.
It will be likely to save the life of some feathered songster, for not
every one, however careful and tender-hearted, understands just how to
keep the pets happy and healthy, as birds should be when at their best.

It may interest the Juniors to know that one of King Edward’s latest
fancies is improving the singing of English canaries. He has had fitted
up in Windsor Castle a large aviary to which hundreds of English
canaries have been sent. Here bird-trainers from Germany are busy
improving the voice of the English canary by means of “bird-organs” and
the suggestion found in hearing the better-voiced German canary sing.
The birds pass through a regular course of singing-lessons, and take
from three to six months to “finish.”

After the talk about caring for birds, which should be so informal that
the children should feel free to ask questions, a little fun is
introduced in the way of a bird-guessing game, conducted as follows:

Write on a blackboard, or blackboards, part or all of these twenty-four
questions, which are plays on the names of well-known American birds.
The guests should be provided with paper and pencils. Half an hour
should be allowed for the guessing. At the end of that time everybody
should pass his list to his right-hand neighbor and correct the list
which has been handed to him. Some one should read the answers slowly.

1. The way some English people pronounce a word which means “yell.”
(Owl--howl.)

2. A letter of the alphabet. (Jay--J.)

3. The bird that chews its cud. (Cowbird.)

4. A bad-tempered William. (Crossbill.)

5. The royal bird that is fond of a hook and line. (Kingfisher.)

6. A good time in a field. (Meadow-lark.)

7. The bird that ought to win every race. (Swift.)

8. The bird that is like a baby before it can walk. (Creeper.)

9. The bird that Yale ought to like. (Bluebird.)

10. The bird that whacks everybody. (Thrasher.)

11. The bird that is almost as important as the Pope. (Cardinal.)

12. The bird that you mustn’t stroke the wrong way. (Catbird.)

13. The bird that is “talk.” (Chat.)

14. The bird that you never ought to do just because you have beaten
your friend at checkers or something. (Crow.)

15. An unusually small sample of a well known vegetable. (Peewee--pea
wee.)

16. A bird that is almost “her glove.” (Hermit.)

17. A bird that can fly when there is plenty of wind. (Kite.)

18. Where bread is baked. (Ovenbird.)

19. Something found on a tree and then put in a nest for a certain
purpose. (Nuthatch.)

20. A bird that is always thieving. (Robin--robbin’.)

21. A bird that makes good coasting. (Snowbird.)

22. A bird that spanks an unfortunate boy having a common first name.
(Whip-poor-will.)

23. The bird that is a sweet-smelling tree. (Cedar-bird.)

24. The sparrow that the hounds like to chase. (Fox-sparrow.)

Most of the time will be spent in comparing experiences and pets, and
the Juniors will go away more than ever resolved to be kind to their
little feathered friends, which are among the most beautiful and most
helpless of God’s creatures.




A Fairy Strawberry Festival.


A strawberry luncheon given at the summer home of one of my Chicago
friends reminded me that the Juniors would delight in a strawberry
festival all their own. Where there is a hospitable farm or garden with
a large strawberry-patch, whose owner agrees to give the berries for the
festival if the Juniors will pick them, the way is open.

Usually in our northern latitudes the strawberries ripen just in good
time for the beginning of vacation, so that without interference with
school preparations the Juniors can pick the berries in the morning
while the dew is still on them. Twenty Juniors, each with pail or
basket, will make short and merry work of the picking. Then the fruit
should be kept in a cool place until afternoon, when it is taken to the
church basement or wherever the festival is to be, and hulled. There
might be a slight reward given to the Junior who picks the most berries,
also to the one who hulls the most, provided that the hulling is done
carefully.

Cake and ice-cream should be previously engaged, and some of the boys
may call for the cakes at the various homes in the afternoon. The
ice-cream, of course, will be delivered by the dealer, unless that,
also, is home-made and presented. Sugar for the berries must not be
forgotten.

With a few hints from the Junior superintendent the older girls can
arrange the tables, decorating them as prettily as they please with
flowers and ferns brought by the younger ones; and the boys may help
prepare the checks or tickets, with prices plainly marked. There should
be separate checks for the berries, ice-cream, and cake, so that,
whatever the order, the checks may be ready to send with each plate.

If the occasion has been well advertised, as it _will_ be--trust the
Juniors for that!--people will come in large numbers; and the Juniors,
previously drilled, may wait on them, the larger ones attending to the
“dishing out” in another room, while the smaller ones, dressed in fairy
and brownie costumes, act as waiters. Two of the Juniors, a boy and a
girl, might serve as cashiers.

When all have been served, toward the close of the evening there may be
several songs and recitations, ending with a fairy drill, following the
plan of the “holly and mistletoe drill” described elsewhere in the book.
If the room, or at least the wall back of the platform, be decorated in
green or in pink, with roses and ferns in profusion, the drill will
appear to better advantage.

The Juniors and their superintendent will find plenty of work, as well
as profit and play, in connection with this occasion, as is the case
with most strawberry festivals; but all will enjoy it; and, if thought
out well in advance, the details may be so divided as to make the labor
light. The flower committee of the older society will readily lend a
hand with the decorations if they are asked; and the fancy drill could
of course be omitted, although it is a very pretty feature. If given, it
should be by the smaller Juniors, both boys and girls, in their fairy
and brownie costumes, and all carrying small, light trays instead of
half-hoops.




A Pansy-Hunt.


From the colored plates in flower catalogues, and from advertising and
other picture cards, select those having pansies, the prettier the
better. Let the Juniors help collect them. This in itself would seem to
be a “pansy-hunt,” but it is only the beginning.

When there are several hundred pansies, not as yet cut out, the Juniors
may meet for their work. The first thing to be done is to cut out the
pansies. This will not take long, and as the fingers fly some one may
read aloud an entertaining story, perhaps a short one by “Pansy”; or, if
that is not at hand, a bright one from the latest _Christian Endeavor
World_ is always in order at such times.

Next, the pansies are all placed in small, numbered envelopes, ten
pansies in each, preparatory to playing the game of “butterfly
pansy-hunt.” Half of the Juniors go out of the room, and the rest
proceed to hide the envelopes. When called in, the hunting party, who
are the “butterflies,” have a grand rummage, and the “butterfly” that
finds the most pansies is made the leader of the hiding party next time.
The divisions are reversed so that the hiders become the butterflies
each time that the pansies are all found. As the envelopes are numbered,
it is easy to determine when this is the case. Quick wits in thinking of
new places, and sharp eyes for discovering them, are thus kept busy, and
when tired of this game the Juniors may all be seated again around a
long table while the superintendent produces a large pasteboard box with
a pansy-decorated cover. Explaining that pansies mean “thoughts,” and
that this box is full of bright and sweet thoughts to be used for people
who have not quite so much to make them happy as the Juniors, she
invites the children to a new kind of pansy-hunt, which is not entirely
for themselves.

The box is passed around, and each Junior takes out a handful of the
clippings, which, needless to say, have been carefully gathered by the
superintendent and her friends, so that each one contains a thought
worth reading, and within the comprehension of the Juniors. Selections
found in books could be used also by typewriting them on slips of
paper, and might include a number from the Bible. Several rolls of baby
ribbon, one each of all the different pansy colors, should be in the
box.

When the Juniors are supplied with a handful of thoughts apiece, give to
each a pen and ink and a package of little cards. These cards should be
a trifle larger than visiting-cards, or just large enough to contain one
of the short written selections and a pansy. Let the children copy on
the cards, in their own handwriting, from the clippings the ones which
they like best; this will leave the original clippings to be used again
for other purposes. Each Junior may write seven, one for each day in the
week, after pasting a pansy on each card; then tie a ribbon a few inches
long through a hole in one corner, leaving one end free, and tie the
free ends of all seven ribbons together so that they can be hung up. If
the ribbons used are as many as possible of the different pansy colors
for each bunch, the effect will be extremely pretty. Some of the more
skilful workers may find that they have time to prepare a second bunch
in the same way.

These handfuls of thoughts may then be sent where they will be most
appreciated, and the pansy-hunt will have served, at the very lowest
estimate, a double purpose.




A Rainy Fourth.


There are bright possibilities in every cloud, and even a rainy Fourth
of July is no exception. So the Joyville Juniors discovered. Of course,
they were intending to have a picnic, besides enjoying the regulation
fireworks; and here was a cold, steady drizzle, for all the world as if
it were November.

Great were the lamentations; but just as the “Sultan of Sulkydom” was
about to have everything his own way he was put to rout by a big covered
wagon driven around from one house to another where the Joyville Juniors
lived. There were twenty-three of them in the society; but sixteen
houses contained them all, and fourteen of these were quite close
together; so it was not more than an hour before the last youngsters
were collected and all were landed in the big upper room of Judge
Elsworth’s house. Miss Elsworth, the Junior superintendent, welcomed
them with a certain twinkle of the eyes which made every Junior
instantly conclude that in spite of the rain they would manage to have a
good time.

“Just wait a minute until the Independence Wizard comes in,” said Miss
Elsworth mysteriously, “and then the best part of the fun will begin.”

The children were breathless. Presently there were three sharp raps at
the door, and the Independence Wizard was ushered in.

Two artistically draped table-covers, a wig, mask, skull-cap, and
glasses had transformed Miss Elsworth’s brother into a very presentable
wizard, and after entertaining the children for a half-hour with parlor
magic he produced from apparently nowhere a bundle of bright-colored
tissue-paper, some tinsel, a rubber ball, a large potato, a dried
sunflower stalk, and several other mysterious things, and said: “Presto!
change! The weather is not quite all we expected outdoors; but we are
independent, and will make our own fair weather right here. We will make
our own fireworks, too, and fire them off without even waiting till
night. That is what wizards are good for, if they are Independence
Wizards; and every one of you is going to learn the wizard trade,
beginning this very minute; that is, if you want to. Do you?”

Of course they did, and the girls were assured that this splendid offer
included them too; for would they not make the very best of witches?

With the aid of his sister, who had mysteriously disappeared a short
time before, and who reappeared now as the Independence Witch, with a
book of magic all her own in the form of a magazine saved for just such
an emergency, the wizard soon had the children absorbed in making the
charming paper fireworks fully described by Lina Beard in _The
Delineator_ for July, 1902. They can be fired off indoors as well as
outdoors; and the gorgeous comets, brilliant pinwheels, sparkling
calumet with its bright sparks flying all over the hair and clothing of
the experimenters, the sunflower-stalk sky-rocket, and the bamboo pistol
with potato bullets, were all as fascinating as they were harmless.

After the bright showers indoors had made the revellers quite forget the
dull showers outside, a giant firecracker candy-box was called into
use; and with songs, stories, and a lunch which disappeared so rapidly
as to convince any skeptic of the acquired magical powers of those
present, the fireworks were sorted out, and many of them were found to
be quite uninjured. These were carefully packed in a box for the
Children’s Home, and the Juniors voted that rainy day the best
Independence celebration ever held in Joyville.




An Indian Festival.


Chicago’s one hundredth birthday was the occasion of a celebration
interesting to many thousands, and not the least interesting feature was
the Indian village in Lincoln Park. Picturesque in their typical
costumes, the red men appeared much as their ancestors did a century
ago. From Chief No-zu-kah, the medicine-man in his coonskin cap and red
blanket, who rattled his medicine-bags as he walked, down to
six-year-old Hach-si-acha, the braves and squaws were the centre of
attraction; and this, together with an Indian festival once successfully
given by a wide-awake older Endeavor society, inclines me to think that
the Juniors should have one of their own, improving on all former
undertakings of the kind, and perhaps on nature as well!

War-paint and feathers, beads, blankets, and moccasins, should be
brought into use for the costumes. Decorate the rooms with plenty of
boughs and foliage, to represent a woodland scene; hang cages of
singing birds from the branches; and have a wigwam in one corner, with a
buffalo robe spread in front of its entrance. Two Junior “Indian” girls
who have learned the now popular basket-weaving, may be seated here at
their work, with finished baskets for sale. One or more flower-girls may
wander about, selling colored grasses and other similar treasures. One
of the Junior boys may represent a medicine-man, and sell roots and
herbs; another may sell bows and arrows to all who wish to test their
skill at the target, which must be so placed that stray shots can do no
damage. A loan exhibition of Indian curios will be instructive, if there
is some one to explain them; and the Indian portraits, in colors, to be
found among the Perry Pictures, will prove interesting. A fancy-work
booth may contain feather fans, dainty bags of beadwork, dolls dressed
as pappooses and squaws, and birch bark made into all kinds of pretty
conceits, from toy canoes to bon-bon-boxes filled with salted nuts
instead of candy.

The bows and arrows will play a lively part in the evening’s
festivities. A small sum may be charged for each trial, if desired.
Archery is said to be the coming sport; and, if it is indeed soon to be
revived from its centuries of partial sleep, and thus rival golf and
other favorites, one cannot begin to practise too soon! It is certainly
graceful, healthful, and fascinating enough to warrant the revival.

Refreshments should be nuts and fruits, delicious in themselves, but
served on wooden plates by “Indian” waitresses in the most primitive
manner. A programme might be rendered beginning with a reading from
“Hiawatha” illustrated with tableaux, which the Juniors, with careful
training, can present as well as any one; including also an Indian
hunter’s drill with bows and arrows, in which either boys alone, or
girls alone, or both boys and girls, might take part; and closing with
all the Juniors’ forming in line and uttering a war-whoop, which if not
realistic will be at least startling.




A Boys’ Book Party.


Library parties for grown people are common enough, but the boys should
have a costume book party of their own. The more boys present, the
better. The following suggestions for costumes may be helpful:

1. “Black Beauty.” A good-looking boy in burnt cork.

2. “Little Men.” Two or more brothers or friends wearing high hats,
long-tailed coats, etc.

3. “Pilgrim’s Progress.” A boy wearing a gown and carrying a staff. The
word “Mecca” should be printed on a label fastened to his breast.

4. “Tom Saw-yer.” A boy whose real name is Tom should raise a telescope
to his eyes every few minutes.

5. “Rob Roy.” A red-haired boy in Highland costume. The plaid should be
correct.

6. “Kenilworth.” (Kennel worth.) A boy leading his pet dog.

7. “Under the Lilacs.” A boy wearing a garland of real or artificial
lilacs.

8. “Under Drake’s Flag.” A boy wearing the British flag as a turban.

9. “Merry adventures of Rob-in Hood.” A boy named Robert wearing his
sister’s hood.

10. “St. Nicholas.” A boy dressed as Santa Claus.

11. “The Pirate.” A boy dressed as a typical pirate.

12. “Story of a Bad Boy.” A boy wearing a placard on which is printed
“The History of My Life.”

13. “Boys of ’76.” Two boys, each wearing a placard marked, “100-24.”

14. “Recollections of a Drummer-Boy.” A boy with a drum. On a placard is
written, “Forty Years Ago.”

15. “Sketch-Book.” A boy carrying a drawing-book under his arm.

Thirty is a good number to be present at a book party. All the guests
should send their book-titles to the host of the evening two or three
days before the party. At the door each boy should be handed a pencil, a
blank sheet of paper, and a numbered card which he should pin to his
back or sleeve. Half an hour should be allowed for guessing the names.
One reward might be a book like Kipling’s “Barrack-Room Ballads,” or
“Seven Seas;” another, a paper-cutter; and, for the shortest list, a
blank book. Ice-cream and cake have nothing to do with books, but
should be served just the same, if possible, to comfort the losers.




Card-Pasting.


A good variation from making scrap-books for a children’s hospital,
especially if the workers happen to be few, is to use large cards,
preparing them like the different pages of a picture scrap-book, but
leaving them separate. Then they can be easily handed from one bed to
another; and, as they can be divided among the different children, they
can be seen by many at once without waiting till enough whole
scrap-books can be filled. Ten Juniors can easily prepare fifty cards in
a single afternoon, but the pictures will be most interesting if weeks
are spent in collecting them.

Take large white or delicately tinted cards about eighteen inches long
and twelve inches wide. Paste on them gay pictures cut from advertising
cards and other sources, arranging them according to taste. One card
could be a menagerie, or a “Noah’s ark,” with a long procession of
animals winding all around from top to bottom. Such a card once made had
an array that would have astonished Noah. There were dancing bears, and
elephants with howdahs on their backs, and circus horses, and monkeys
dressed like Italian lazzaroni, and pigs with apples in their mouths,
and even a Christmas turkey carried on the heads of three geese. Another
card could be made up entirely of flowers or of flowers, birds, and
butterflies. Another could contain ships, sea-gulls, fishes, and some
shells on a supposed beach at the bottom. Funny groups of people doing
all sorts of things can be arranged.

Some of the figures can be cut from newspapers or old magazines; if
bright colors are desired, a paintbox can be brought into service, but
usually the uncolored pages are very acceptable mixed in with those cut
from colored plates and cards.

Sometimes figures cut from stiff cards will not be easy to paste, but by
spreading them (on the wrong side, of course) with a rather thin boiled
flour paste, and letting them lie for a few moments, they become softer
and more pliable.




Climbing the Bean-Stalk.


A barn with a captivating hay-loft, a stout ladder with a vine thickly
twined around it, some croquet-balls, four Indian clubs, a pointer, and
a supply of apples, oranges, and small bags of nuts or cracker-jack, are
all that you will need--except the Juniors, who are most necessary of
all.

“Climbing the bean-stalk” consists of going up the ladder to the giant’s
castle,--the very same castle, in imagination, explored by the immortal
Jack,--and finding and taking possession of the treasures. This means a
hunt in the hay for the apples and other things previously hidden there.
The pointer, croquet-balls, and Indian clubs may be tucked in to add
variety to the store.

After the treasures are all discovered and safely brought down the
bean-stalk, the Juniors will enjoy a game of “croquet-bowling.” A
sufficient space should be cleared on the barn floor, and the four
Indian clubs should be set up at one end as pins, three in a row behind
the king-pin. The bowling is then done with the croquet-balls.

The party may conclude with an impromptu “freak show,” using the
hay-loft as a pedestal from which to display the “freaks.” This is where
your pointer comes in. The amount of fun to be had from a “freak show”
can be best understood if I give you the description of Vincent Van M.
Beede’s, in his own words, only remarking that the barn adds to the
general hilarity, and that one of the Indian clubs would do very well
instead of the suggested andiron.

“One rainy morning last summer the children and I had great fun getting
up a freak show. As we had not thought out beforehand what we were going
to do, things were all the funnier. Little Marvyn, seven years old,
stood on a table and chose to be Pullaway, the Boy with the Rubber Skin.

“I was asked to be lecturer, so with a pointer in my hand I explained as
glibly as I could how marvellous a boy this was. Why, he could stretch
out the skin of his cheeks two feet, and then let it snap back again!
(Pullaway now showed his power.) Martin, a handsome fellow of twelve,
was Stickeminus, the Human Pincushion. I showed the (imaginary) audience
that pins had no effect on the feelings of this wonder. ‘I will stick a
pin into his arm this very minute,’ I said. Strange to say, the Human
Pincushion squealed! Fritz, thirteen years old, who has a beautiful
physique, was Lomposo Musculario, the Strong Man. ‘See him lift that
mighty andiron,’ I remarked. ‘It weighs 555⅕ pounds.’ Lomposo puffed and
groaned under his heavy burden. Essie wanted to be the Fat Lady; I
suppose because as a matter of fact she is very slender. It was
surprising how much she succeeded in blowing out her cheeks. Madeleine,
Champion Pie-Eater of the World, gobbled up anywhere from fifty to
seventy-five (imaginary) mince pies, and Jolliby, as Burroo, the One
Armed Wild Man of Borneo, seized my arm in his teeth while I was telling
what a dangerous creature he was. The other freaks set up a chorus of
alarm, and I do not know what would have become of me if Winkles, who
was the _Very_ Wildest Man, had not grappled in deadly combat with
Burroo; and, if Madeleine had not offered them her best (imaginary)
pies, they would, I fear, have devoured each other on the spot.”




Advertising-Carnival.


Having made out a list, for your own convenience, of well-known business
firms, local or otherwise, whose names could be represented by costumes,
let each Junior come dressed to represent one of the firms. For
instance, Marshall Field’s might be portrayed by a boy in a soldier’s
uniform, with dried grasses and other field treasures extending from
pockets and buttonholes; Macy’s, by a girl named May, or dressed as
queen of the May, with a placard attached bearing the letter “C.” The
same letter, worn by a boy carrying a gallon can, a hammer, and a
barrel-hoop, would answer for “Siegel and Cooper.” “Tiffany” might be
portrayed by a picture of two people having a slight quarrel, the
picture being fastened to the costume of a girl named Fannie or Annie,
or to that of a boy carrying a large palm-leaf fan and limping as if one
knee were affected.

Local firms, however, should predominate, and the utmost secrecy should
prevail in all the preparations. When the evening of the carnival has
arrived in all its glory, give each guest a pencil and paper, and reward
with some gift the one who can without assistance make out the longest
correct list of firms represented. Such an occasion would be interesting
to others besides the Juniors; and a charge for admission might be made,
in which case a light repast should be served, and a fancy march of the
various “walking advertisements” should add to the attractions.

This occasion might be combined, if desired, with the “evening with ads”
described elsewhere in the book.




Parlor Golf Party.


Most boys and girls are somewhat familiar with golf, and the Juniors
will probably prove no exception. Any kind of “parlor golf” may be
introduced, as simple or as elaborate as you please. Here is one kind
that must be interesting, called “Quiet Go-lol-uf,” and explained by
Vincent Van M. Beede as follows:

“This game is meant especially for boys and girls who know something
about the royal and ancient game of ‘golf’ sometimes called ‘go-lol-uf’
just for fun. Seat your friends about a table, pass around pencils and
paper, and then say:

“‘We are going to play go-lol-uf. I hope you won’t squabble much. This
game is a little different from the outdoor kind. Here you are expected
_not_ to get into a hole. I shall pass to each of you a card on which is
written something about golf. Write your answers on the large sheets;
and don’t forget, please, to write your names at the bottom of the
sheets. Number the answers, of course. At the end of every two minutes I
shall yell “Fore!” and everybody must pass his card to his left-hand
neighbor.’

“Here is a list of terms:

“1. A dancing-party. (Ball.)

2. A drink. (Tea.)

3. A box in which to keep the vegetable from which this drink is made.
(Caddie--Caddy.)

4. A society. (Club.)

5. The man who rows next the coxswain in a racing-shell. (Stroke.)

6. A common color. (Green.)

7. Bold. (Brass(e)y.)

8. The man who holds the reins. (Driver.)

9. A number. (Fore--four.)

10. A guess. (Hazard.)

11. Used for smoothing clothes. (Iron.)

12. A story that is not true. (Lie.)

13. A piece. (Slice.)

14. Something with which one eats. (Spoon.)

15. The noise made by an animal that does not like Thanksgiving.
(Gobble.)

16. A place where hay is kept. (Loft.)

“The rewards might be a golf-club, a scarf-pin, a score-book, a pair of
balls, or a rubber tee.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Another game of golf is the one played on a table wound with a somewhat
crumpled cloth. Each player is furnished with a pea and a pin by way of
ball and stick. It is very good fun when there are players enough to
make the contest exciting; for the winner is the player who is first to
roll the pea up to goal. The pea that collides with another, or pushes
it, or even touches it, is sent back to the starting-point.

Other games mentioned elsewhere in the book may be substituted for one
or the other of these, in case not all present are enthusiasts on golf;
but the second one could be adapted to the veriest novice, while
interesting to all. Refreshments of cake and chocolate may be served,
and it would add to the fun if the small iced cakes were decorated with
various golf emblems.




Mysterious Basket-Ball.


Collect the materials, either with or without the Juniors’ help,
beginning some time in advance. When the time comes to have the “ball,”
the more mystery the better.

Place a large basket or clothes-hamper in the middle of the room. This
is the “mysterious basket” part, and each Junior is then told to help
himself to his “ball,” one of the many bundles wrapped up to look as
nearly like balls as possible, all the way from the size of a baseball
to that of a basket-ball.

Have ready plenty of scissors, paste, glue, needles, thread, and the
celluloid thimbles that can be bought for a cent or two apiece. As each
“ball” is opened, it proves to hold the materials for making a small
Christmas gift or article for a fair to be given by the Juniors, or for
a Junior fancy-work booth at a “grown-up” fair.

Many simple and inexpensive articles, both pretty and useful, can be
made by children of Junior age, both girls and boys. If a piece of work
which is all sewing happens to be drawn by a boy, so much the more fun.
The Junior superintendent acts as “umpire,” answering questions and
explaining the rules of the game. A thimble worn on the thumb is “foul,”
even if the fingers _do_ seem to be all thumbs, which is often far from
being the case.

Here is a partial list of articles which might be made:

1. Stamp-box, of heavy water-color paper, ready cut out. The one who
draws this bundle will have an easy task; merely to fold the box into
shape, paste the flaps on the inside, decorate the cover with a two-cent
stamp, and tie it in place with a ribbon.

2. Chamois spectacle-cleaner, cut in any fancy shape; two pieces
buttonhole-stitched around the edge with colored silk, and caught
together with fancy ribbon.

3. Pocket pincushion made of two pieces of stiff cardboard covered first
with a thin layer of cotton batting, then with wide fancy ribbon; sewed
together around the edge and filled with several kinds and sizes of
pins.

4. Chinese pen-wiper made of two nutshells glued together to make a
head; a pigtail of braided horsehair; a Chinese costume of red cloth
with several flannel leaves under the loose, short coat; ink features
for the face; and, if one likes, Chinese hieroglyphics in ink decorating
the costume.

5. Match-scratcher. Cardboard foundation, with a strip of blue paper
pasted across the top to represent sky; a strip of green paper of the
same width, pasted across the bottom for grass; a larger strip of red
paper between, marked off with ink to represent a brick wall; a cat made
of emery paper seated on the grass facing the wall.

6. Recipe-holder, of two teapots or teakettles cut from celluloid, tied
together with ribbon and decorated with water-colors in lettering or
other design.

7. Blotter, calendar, and pen-wiper combined. A dozen pieces of colored
blotting-paper tied together with a ribbon; the outer one with a picture
and a small calendar pad pasted on; or there may be a cover made of
white cardboard decorated with gold or silver paper bells, or with
flowers or leaves carefully and _separately_ cut from Japanese
tissue-paper napkins and pasted on. A tiny pen-wiper made of several
circles of chamois is to be tied in one corner.

8. Cover for a kodak album, made of rough, heavy tan or brown
writing-paper with a target in the centre. The target is made by pasting
four paper circles of contrasting colors, one over the other, each
smaller than the last, the smallest one in the centre being the
bull’s-eye; and printing, each side of the target, in gold or white, the
words “Snap-Shots.”

9. Court-plaster case of water-color paper, tied together with ribbon,
the cover decorated with a picture, the leaves of court-plaster.

10. Shaving-paper “snowballs.” These are very pretty, and are made of
many circles of white tissue-paper caught together in the same way as a
ball pen-wiper, and furnished with a hanging loop of red ribbon.

11. Pen-wipers of several thicknesses of felt, cut out leaf-shape or
flower shape, and held together with a bow and ends of ribbon.

12. Junior “comfort-powders.” Tie a cheery Bible verse or other pleasant
message in a piece of fringed tissue-paper; then tie fifty-two of these
in a bunch, one for each week in the year. Or the Juniors might combine
in this, and make the powders daily ones.

Other articles, as simple or more elaborate, will be thought
of in abundance; pretty ironing-holders, hair-receivers, dusters
and duster-bags, sweeping-caps, lamp-mats, dinner cards,
whisk-broom-holders, etc. The work, if well prepared in advance, could
probably be done by the Juniors in an hour at the longest; some of it in
much less. Rewards should be given, not for the most rapid work, but for
that most neatly done. The “umpire” may enlist the aid of one or more of
her friends in preparing the work, giving instructions, and assigning
rewards, especially if there are many of the small workers; and the
Juniors may be allowed to exchange tasks if thought desirable.

After the work is done, and while the committee is deciding as to its
merits, the “ball-team” may indulge in refreshments in the appropriate
globular form of doughnuts, oranges, or pop-corn balls; after which the
afternoon may close with the award of the gifts and a stirring game of
real basket-ball; or, if it is in the evening, or too late in the season
for this out-of-door sport, try a game of “Little Queen Fluff” instead.
“Little Queen Fluff” is a ball of cotton covered with colored crape
paper. Place the chairs two feet apart in a line across the centre of
the room; arrange the Juniors one opposite each chair, against the wall
on both sides of the room; give one of these balls and a palm-leaf fan
to each; and let them see which can most successfully send his own
particular “Little Queen Fluff” through her castle underneath the centre
of the chair, to the opposite side of the room. The side which gets all
its balls across the room first, fanning them by way of the “castle”
underneath the centre of the chair, wins the game.




A Puritan Thanksgiving Dinner.


This is a combination affair, enlisting Endeavorers of all ages; but the
Juniors’ part in it is an important one. The main idea is to make it a
pleasant occasion, not only for those who would have a Thanksgiving
feast anyway, but for as many as possible who would otherwise go
without. The very poorest should be hunted up and included in the
invitations.

Let me tell you how the plan was once carried out by a lady and her
little fourteen-year-old niece, whom we will call Priscilla. The writer
says:

“With the help of kind friends and faithful Bridget we made very much of
a success of our dinner, and many a poor soul was made happy for one day
at least. For several weeks previous, Priscilla and I spent our evenings
by the great fire in the big kitchen, dressing Puritan dolls for the
children, and making other gifts. Priscilla asked old sailor Hogan to
make for her a small model of the Mayflower such as she had seen in
Pilgrim Hall at Plymouth, and after we had stretched the old mahogany
table to its fullest extent, which reached almost the entire length of
the kitchen, and covered it with Grandmother Alden’s white damask
banquet-cloth, Priscilla placed the little ship in the centre on a large
mirror. The frame of the mirror we concealed with sea-sand, shells, and
pebbles; and on one side we placed a large stone which John had carved
into the shape of the dear old rock on which our Pilgrim Fathers landed.
We scattered over all this thin flaky cotton sprinkled with crystallized
alum to imitate snow, and the little Puritan dolls on deck made the
scene very realistic. The body of the ship we filled with our gifts.

[Illustration: DIAGRAM 1.]

[Illustration: DIAGRAM 2.]

“Priscilla made fruit-baskets, and bowls for the nuts and candy, out of
pumpkins. John sawed three large bright yellow ones for her as shown in
the diagrams. After these had been scooped out, using the contents for
pies, and dried thoroughly, we placed them on the table on mats of green
tissue-paper cut in the shape of pumpkin leaves. The effect against the
white cloth was quite pretty. For each of our poorer guests we made an
old-fashioned reticule of yellow cloth tied with green braid. In these
we placed a pair of woollen gloves, two pairs of woollen stockings or
socks, a handkerchief, a cake of soap, and an order for a stout pair of
shoes. In the way of gifts for the other guests there were little
keepsakes such as pumpkin pincushions made of yellow silk and tied with
green ribbons, Plymouth Rock paper-weights, and little models of
Governor Carver’s chair in which we tied yellow pincushions with green
ribbons. There were napkin-rings, needle-books, stamp-boxes,
paper-cutters, and pin-trays, all with engravings of the Mayflower or
some Pilgrim emblem. We had plenty of dinner for all. There was
everything required for a Thanksgiving feast, from the turkey and
cranberry sauce to plum pudding, into which Bridget had put plenty of
plums. All who helped in receiving dressed in Puritan costumes.

“After the dinner had been eaten and the presents distributed, Miss
Katherine Anderson, one of the teachers in the public school, gave a
little talk, for fear the significance of the occasion might escape some
of the most ignorant; but I am glad to say that there were none except
the very smallest who did not know the history of our Pilgrim Fathers.
The ladies of our old town have decided to give a dinner of this kind
every Thanksgiving.”

When the Endeavorers are to give such a dinner, the little address would
naturally be by the pastor, and the Juniors’ part of the preparations
might well begin with the “mysterious basket-ball” described elsewhere
in the book. In this case the small articles to be made or decorated
would of course consist wholly of such as would be adapted for gifts at
the dinner, and the Juniors should be told of the plan at the beginning
of their work. They could also help in dressing the Puritan dolls and in
receiving the guests; and, if they wish to do more, they might give a
“Mayflower drill” in Puritan costume.

An entertainment of this kind could also be given to raise money for the
church or society. In such cases, of course, the philanthropic features
would be omitted, an admission fee charged, and the articles from the
Mayflower sold.




Teddy and the Goblin.

(_Teddy’s Dream on Christmas Morn._)

BY MATTIE-MARIE GAMBLE.


The necessary requirements are a cot, a chair, a candle and candlestick,
a large stocking, a small camera, and a large wooden frame with an
opening about five feet square. The frame might be gilded or covered
with yellow Canton flannel, and should have a support at the back of
each side to hold it firmly in an upright position. There should be a
box or platform high enough to be on a level with the lower edge of the
opening of the frame, back of it.

The stage should represent a scene in the woods, with an abundance of
green foliage; and leaves or green cloth should cover the floor. Near
the back of the stage should be a curtain that could be drawn to each
side, on which are painted trees, etc., to carry out the woods effect.

Back of this curtain arrange a small sleeping-room, in which are placed
the cot and the chair with the candle on it; and in some prominent place
is hung the stocking, well stuffed, with the small camera peeping out at
the top.


Characters.

  TEDDY, _A little boy of ten years_.
  FUN, _A little old goblin_.
  RED RIDINGHOOD AND WOLF.
  OLD WOMAN WITH BROOM.
  JACK THE GIANT-KILLER.
  THE GIANT.
  JACK AND JILL.
  TOM, TOM, THE PIPER’S SON.
  JACK-BE-NIMBLE.
  BO-PEEP.
  SIMPLE SIMON.


Costumes.

TEDDY. Long nightgown reaching to just above the ankles, barefooted, and
hair tousled.

FUN, _the goblin_. A boy of twelve or fourteen years, quite small for
his age. Long beard, pointed shoes that turn up at the toes, long belted
blouse and tight knee pants, stocking cap with tassel.

RED RIDINGHOOD. Long red cloak and hood and a basket. A large dog may
represent the wolf.

OLD WOMAN. Pointed hat with brim. Old shoulder-shawl and dress to
ankles, carrying a dilapidated broom.

JACK THE GIANT-KILLER. Page’s costume and sword.

GIANT. Very large man. Any fantastic costume.

JACK AND JILL. Dressed as country children and carrying a pail, Jill
with sunbonnet.

TOM, TOM, THE PIPER’S SON. Boy about sixteen, tall and slender; short
waistcoat, trousers above shoe-tops, little old hat on back of head; a
pig made of white Canton flannel under his arm. Or, if a small live pig
could be procured, it would add to the merriment.

JACK-BE-NIMBLE. Small boy in short waistcoat and trousers, with candle
in candlestick.

BO-PEEP. Shepherdess costume. Long crook with ribbon tied on end.

SIMPLE SIMON. Trousers to shoe-tops; straight ragged garment extending
almost to knees, and left open at neck; hair tousled. A tin pail and a
rod about two feet in length with long string tied to it and piece of
bent wire attached to the end of string.

TIME. Just before dawn Christmas morning.


  SCENE _opens on the little bedroom._ TEDDY _asleep on the cot. Keep
  the front of the stage as dark as possible during this scene, with
  woods curtain drawn aside, and throw a dim light on the bedroom from
  behind the scenes._

TEDDY (_waking, sitting up in bed, and rubbing his eyes_). My, but it’s
dark! I wonder if Santa Claus has been here yet. Guess I’ll see.
(_Strikes a match, and lights the candle, holds it above his head, and
peers around. Suddenly seeing the stocking fairly bulging with gifts, he
puts the candle on the chair, bounds out of bed, and makes a dive for
the stocking. When about to take it down, he hesitates._) I know it
ain’t time, but I just _can’t_ wait. I’ll just take _one_ thing out.
(_Reaches up carefully and takes down camera._) My! if it ain’t the
camera I wrote to Santa Claus for. I wonder how it works. (_Turning it
over._) I’ll take Rover’s picture the very first one. (_Dances back to
bed, camera in hand, and, pulling the covers over him, begins examining
it. Yawns several times, and talks in a sleepy voice._) Won’t ma and pa
be (_yawns_) surprised--when--they--see--(_yawns again_)--it,
though?--Wish--I--could---- (_Falls asleep._)

  (_In runs little old goblin, frolics around the room a little, blows
  out the candle, and perches himself on the foot of the bed._)

FUN. Aha! been into your stocking already, have you? and sound asleep
again. Well, well (_then talking to himself_), I will just wake him up
in dreamland, and have a little fun with him. (_Turning to_ TEDDY.)
Well, Master Teddy, how are you? Merry Christmas!

TEDDY (_very sleepy and still holding on to camera_). How do you
do?--but I--I don’t know you. What is your name? and where am I?

FUN. That’s so! Why, you are in dreamland; and you don’t know me?--ha!
ha!--well, my name’s Fun. You think that a queer name? Well, I took that
name because, you see, people are always wanting to do things “just for
fun,” and so I thought I would be well taken care of!

TEDDY. I wish I could take a picture with my new camera just for fun,
but I don’t know how.

FUN. Is that so? Why, I can take fine pictures. Just come with me into
the woods, and I will show you. (_Jumps down and pulls_ TEDDY, _with
camera, out of bed by the hand_. TEDDY _hangs back as if frightened_.)
O, don’t be afraid. I will take good care of you, and bring you back
again. Come on; we will take pictures of Mother Goose children in the
woods.

TEDDY. O--real sure ’nough live children?

FUN. Yes, I should say so. I know them all--Jack and Jill and Red
Ridinghood and----

TEDDY (_excitedly_). And Jack the Giant-Killer?

FUN. Yes--all of them.

TEDDY. O, let’s hurry! (_No longer holds back, but runs out, pulling_
FUN _after him. As they leave, the foliage curtains should be quickly
drawn together, leaving only the woods, and the light should now be
turned on that scene. Enter_ FUN _and_ TEDDY, _looking around_. TEDDY
_disappointed_.) I don’t see anybody.

FUN. Just wait. Now you stand behind the tree and watch. Keep quiet.
(_Enter_ RED RIDINGHOOD _talking to the wolf, the dog. While she is
talking_, FUN _takes the camera, and turns it in her direction. A stout
rubber band can be attached to the camera so that no one can see it, and
he snaps it very loud as he takes the picture._ FUN _turns to_ TEDDY
_and grins_.) I got that one; now we must get ready for the next.
(_Winds screw. At the same instant some one behind the scenes winds an
old clock or something that makes an equally loud sound. This should be
done each time a picture is taken. Just as he is ready for the next_,
TOM, TOM, THE PIPER’S SON, _runs across the stage with pig, and_ FUN
_jumps quickly to snap the camera_. FUN _turns to_ TEDDY _and winks_.)
Nearly lost that one. (_Winds again. After that the rest of the
characters come in, in quick succession, so that all of them are in
almost at the same time, each of course in his or her own way._ SIMPLE
SIMON _should set his mother’s pail down at one side and begin fishing
in it, always looking as silly as possible_. JACK-BE-NIMBLE _places his
lighted candle on the floor, and frequently jumps lightly back and forth
over it. In the meantime the giant has lain down asleep, and_ JACK THE
GIANT-KILLER _has taken his position with one foot on giant’s chest and
sword in hand_; BO-PEEP _has fallen asleep, and so on_. FUN _skips in
and out among them, snapping one picture after another, always winding
after each. Finally he stops_.) I wonder if I have them all.

TEDDY (_in loud whisper_). You didn’t get the giant. (_Is so interested
that he forgets to keep back, and finds himself in the centre of the
stage._)

FUN. Why, I forgot Little Bo-Peep! and the dear child is fast asleep.
(_Snaps camera again. At the same time, seeing_ TEDDY, _the children all
begin to laugh and dance around him, having lots of fun_. TEDDY _becomes
frightened, and, burying his face in his hands, cries aloud_. FUN _runs
to him, and when the children see the goblin they all scamper off the
stage_, BO-PEEP _and the giant disappearing with the rest_.) What is the
matter, my little friend?

TEDDY. I’m so (_sobs_) scared!

FUN. Scared at what?

TEDDY. Because they’re all around me.

FUN. Who?

TEDDY (_looking up wonderingly_). Why!--why, where are they?

FUN. You crazy child, who are you talking about?

TEDDY. Red Ridinghood and Jack the Giant-Killer and--and all the rest!

FUN. Ha! ha! (_Laughing heartily._) _You_ don’t understand them. Now you
see them and now you don’t.

TEDDY. Wish I could see them again, but I don’t want them to see me.

FUN. Well, the pictures are all ready now, and they are fine ones, too.
One hundred times larger than your camera. Think of it! Would you like
to see them now?

TEDDY. Well, I should say so!

FUN. All right; here goes. First we will have Little Red Ridinghood.
(_During the performance in the woods the cot, chair, etc., should be
removed and the large frame with platform back of it put directly behind
the foliage curtain. Back of the frame opening and platform should be a
woods background if possible. When_ FUN _announces the subject of each
picture, some one behind the scenes, near the front, should read slowly
and clearly the story or verse describing that picture. Meanwhile, those
characters are taking their positions in the frame, and when ready must
not move. As each story or verse is finished, the curtains are drawn
aside for a minute, showing the picture, and then drawn together again.
Then the next story and its picture, and so on until all are shown. As
each one is presented_, TEDDY _and_ FUN _dance around and clap their
hands, making such exclamations as “O my!” “Isn’t that great?” etc.
Curtain falls on the last picture_. FUN _and_ TEDDY _are again alone in
the woods_.) Here they all come back again, I declare! Too bad they
could not have seen their own pictures. O, well; it doesn’t matter. Why!
where are you going, Teddy?

TEDDY. I’m going home! (_Runs off the stage._)

FUN. Wait a minute. (_Talking to himself._) No use. Guess I had better
see if he gets home all right. (_Follows_ TEDDY. _Enter all the children
singing Mother Goose rhymes. While they are dancing and singing, the
large frame is removed, and the cot, etc., are replaced the same as in
the first scene. As the music is finished, they dance off stage. Curtain
opens on bedroom scene._ TEDDY _asleep with camera, and the goblin
perched on bed again_.) Well, the little fellow has had quite a treat,
and it is nearly time for him to wake up; so I must leave him for this
time. (_Jumps down, and as he steals lightly out, kisses his hand to_
TEDDY.) Good-by, little chap. I hope you will have a fine Christmas day.
Good-by.

  (_A bright light is now thrown on the cot, and_ TEDDY _wakes up_.)

TEDDY. My! it’s broad daylight, and I’ll bet the folks are all up.
(_Sits up on one side of the bed; suddenly thinks of the camera, and
takes it up._) Wasn’t Santa Claus good, though? (_Meditatively._) If I
only knew how to use it! (_Brightening._) Why, I do! Now who was it
showed me how? O, yes! it was the goblin, I do believe; and I’ve been to
dreamland. Yes, it all comes to me now, and I’ve resolved that ----
(_Standing and reciting._)

    When there’s something to be bought and you haven’t got the money,
    You just write out that little thought,--now that sounds rather
          funny,--
    Just write it nice to Santa Claus, and seal it up right tight,
    And when you go to bed you know he’ll bring it sure that night.
    Because, you know, ’tis Christmas eve, when Santa always comes,
    And brings you lots of things you want--nice cameras and drums;
    And when you’re puzzled as to how to work the things you get,
    Just go off into dreamland, and you’ll find out, you bet!
    ’Cause Fun, the little goblin, is always sure to know,
    And you can take a trip with him if you are not too slow.
    Then you will find out how to do most anything under the sun,
    And when you wake up bright again, you’ll know just how ’tis done.

CURTAIN.




Cinderella Reception.


The Juniors come, if they wish, in fancy costumes; the smallest girl can
be Cinderella, in pretty slippers, and a trained Empire dress of pink
cambric, with her hair piled up on top of her head; and the smallest boy
should personate the prince, in a light-blue cambric suit with many bows
and buckles. Others may be the cruel stepmother, the proud sisters, the
fairy godmother, the king, the queen, and various other distinguished
people of the times.

Among the games which might be played is “my lady’s slipper.” One player
goes out of the room, and is blindfolded. The rest seat themselves in a
line in seats low enough so that their feet all reach the floor. The
feet must not be tucked under the chairs, or otherwise disposed of in
any way except straight on the floor in front of the seated players. The
blindfolded one is then called in, and tries to find out, by lightly
stepping on the toes of each, who is the one thus trod upon. Some
players can keep perfectly still while this is going on; but many have
not the necessary self-control, and the slightest laugh, exclamation, or
other noise often reveals the secret. The first one whose identity is
thus learned must change places with the blindfolded one, and the game
proceeds as before.

Perhaps the children will like to try a “slipper obstacle-race,” which
is like the race in the “parlor mountain-climb” except that each Junior
wears a paper slipper which must be kept on throughout the race.

“Fairy bowling” is another good game. Cover the dining-room table
temporarily with a cloth of bright-colored flannel or other woollen
material; arrange across it, near one end, a pasteboard arch, or one of
heavy wire wound with ribbon, fastening the ends of the arch to bricks
on each side, covered like the table. Prepare a large bowl of suds, made
of soap, warm water, and glycerine; and arrange the players, boys on one
side of the table and girls on the other, giving to each boy a clay pipe
and to each girl a small fan. The boy at the head of the line takes the
bowl, blows a bubble, and drops it on the table. The girl opposite tries
to fan it under the arch before it breaks. Tally is kept with pink and
blue paper disks on little tally cards which may be attached to the
fans. Pink means a successful bowling; blue, a failure. As each two
players complete their trial, they go to the foot of the line, which
moves up to let the next two try. The game may consist of five rounds,
or four if there are many players. A ribbon-bedecked pipe and a pretty
fan might be the rewards given to the winning bowlers.

Here is a new kind of “slipper-hunt,” which is enjoyable. Tell the
Juniors that there are forty pairs of slippers hidden about the rooms,
and offer a reward to the one finding the greatest number that prove to
be pairs. The slippers should be of different colors, and about three
inches long. They are cut out of cardboard from patterns found in an
illustrated catalogue.

The plan of a doll Cinderella seated in a pumpkin coach lined with
light blue, with four and twenty chocolate mice harnessed to it with
ribbons and driven by a colored doll coachman, is not new, but is very
pleasing, especially to the younger ones. Refreshments may be
slipper-shaped sandwiches or cookies, lemonade, and the chocolate mice.




Star Social.


If you wish decorative features, the following are attractive, though
not necessary to the success of the social.

Cut from gilt paper as many stars about an inch in diameter as there are
Juniors. Then take a large star-shaped wire frame, one of those supplied
by florists for Christmas decorations, fill it with evergreen or holly,
if the social is to be held near Christmas time, and suspend it from the
ceiling or chandelier by ribbons, extending from each point upward and
meeting at the centre. From each point of this large star hang a group
of the little stars, by strings or baby ribbon of different lengths, so
that from each point the gilt stars will be hanging in a cluster, some
higher, some lower. Number all the stars, those in each group having a
number of their own. Thus the cluster of stars from one point will all
be numbered 1, those from another point 2, and so on.

Some of the Juniors are probably taking piano lessons, and making good
progress; or learning to play on other instruments; and of course a
number can sing well. Ask several of the musical ones to come prepared
to play or sing. A few others should have recitations; and two or three
who like to write can each write an original story not more than five
hundred words long.

As the Juniors come in, give to each of them a pencil and a star-shaped
white card with the words written from the centre towards each point,
“Pictures,” “Music,” “Stories,” “Speaking,” and “Museum.” Ask them to
write their names on the reverse side of their cards; and then to read
what is written on the star-points, and to make a check or cross very
plainly in that point having the name of the thing they like best. The
cards are then collected, and will be, by the way, no slight help to a
new Junior superintendent in learning to understand the tastes of the
children with whom she is to work, even after this particular good time
is over.

While the cards, after being collected, are examined and sorted, some
game may be played. The “flying star” is a good one. Each player is
supplied with a small empty spool, with a colored paper star pasted over
one end. Half the stars are red, the other half blue, to distinguish
which side the player is on. Arrange twelve berry-boxes, quart size, on
the floor in a hollow square. Mark four of them on the bottom with the
figure 5; four of them 10, and leave four blank. Place a tin cup in the
centre. Let the players stand a few feet away, and they may test their
skill in throwing. Each spool, or “flying star,” landing in the cup,
counts 20; when landing in one of the boxes, it counts whatever that
box is marked. Each side keeps tally, and when all the stars have flown,
the scores are compared to see which side has the larger.

Next, divide the Juniors into groups for the game “constellations,”
which is really several games in one. The division is made according to
choice as already marked on the cards given out on arrival. Those who
chose “Pictures” are put in Constellation No. 1, and to them belongs the
cluster of little hanging gilt stars marked with that number. Those who
chose “Music” are in Constellation No. 2, and so on. The gilt stars are
taken down and given to the Juniors thus by number, pinned to the dress
of each; and thereby every Junior becomes a “star,” and must prepare to
shine accordingly. As before stated, however, the star decorations are
not absolutely necessary; the Juniors can shine even without being thus
labelled.

The constellation of “star artists” sit together, and for half an hour
engage in some drawing contest. Perhaps the game of “accidental high
art” is as good as any. Spread a newspaper over a table; let each player
be furnished with two pieces of paper and a pen; and on the table place
a bottle of India ink and a fountain-pen-filler. With the filler let one
drop of ink fall upon one of the pieces of paper belonging to each, and
tell him to press upon it his other sheet of paper. This gives each
player the foundation for two pictures, so that if his first attempt is
not an entire success he can try again. The aim is to make of the
grotesque and shapeless blot, by the help of the pen and imagination, a
picture of some object--animal, tree, landscape, or whatever turns out
to be most feasible. As blots are never twice alike, there is every
opportunity for the fancy and skill of the artist.

While Constellation No. 1 is thus engaged, No. 2 is in the next room
preparing its musical programme with the help of those who have brought
something to sing or play; Constellation No. 3 is selecting recitations;
No. 4, if this is the authors’ group, is deciding on the order of
reading and perhaps the titles, or any other unfinished part, of its
original stories; and No. 5 is arranging a museum of natural curiosities
in the form of interesting hats, paper-cutters, and other small articles
whose origin and method of manufacture and use they think they can at
least partially describe.

At the end of the half-hour all the stars gather to listen to the
entertainment provided by each constellation. The “star artists” exhibit
their works of art; the star musicians play and sing; the star authors
read their effusions; the star orators declaim or recite; and the star
museum-directors give their exhibition. A vote of thanks, or some more
substantial reward, may be given to the constellation furnishing the
best entertainment.

Close the evening with refreshments consisting of cheese sandwiches cut
star-shaped and filled, presumably, with green cheese from the moon; and
glasses of creamy milk fresh from the Milky Way. What star or
constellation could fail to be satisfied with such fare?

On leaving, each Junior might be given a star-shaped Christmas card as a
memento.

This plan is capable, of course, like most of those given in this book,
of endless variation. A “surprise constellation,” or some other
preferred, might take the place of any one of those suggested. The
stories, recitations, and music might be given without any previous
arrangement outside, if a thoroughly impromptu programme is desired; but
in most cases a little inkling of what will be expected of them, in the
case of those likely to be called upon, makes the result more
interesting. Some of the musical numbers and recitations could be
humorous, others more serious; but most of them will naturally pertain
to Christmas or stars. The following, once contributed by the writer to
_The New Voice_, might be given by one of the more thoughtful Juniors as
a recitation:

    Star-jewelled was the Night’s dark brow,
      As, with a light caress,
    Smiling, she saw the wondering Earth
      Her promised King confess,
    While Hate and Greed shrank back before
      God’s Love-thought, born to bless
        As the angel choir was singing.

    O glorious Christmas yet to dawn,
      When men shall understand,
    The lowly manger of the heart
      Become a temple grand,
    Each cruel wrong and strife depart,
      Quelled by an infant’s hand,
        While the Christmas bells are ringing!

    Then, Fear-thought, flee! and Hate-thought, die!
      As gleams the Star’s clear ray,
    Join, World, the wise men’s holy quest;
      Put evil far away;
    And give till all the earth is blest;
      Let Love-thought rule to-day,
        Every heart its incense bringing.




Holly and Mistletoe Drill.

BY IMOGEN A. STOREY.


An even number of small boys of uniform height must be used for this
drill. Usually it will be found necessary for the Juniors to call in the
aid of children outside the society, which will furnish a fine
opportunity to win new members.

At the rear of the stage a small hut should be constructed of light
framework, and covered with heavy brown paper. The roof and window-sills
of this must be spread with cotton to represent snow.

On the floor of the stage a heavy white cloth should be stretched, and
in the rear and at the sides boughs of evergreens covered with cotton
should be arranged to represent the woods.

The floor of the stage must be laid off as shown by diagrams to prevent
mistakes. Half of the children must be dressed in fairylike suits of
white, carrying a half-hoop trimmed with mistletoe and white satin
ribbons, the ribbons tied at each end of the hoop. The others must be
costumed in like manner, only in red, having hoops trimmed in holly and
red ribbons. All must wear green gauze wings.

When the drill begins, old Santa and his wife should be seen busy in
their little house, fixing toys. If presents are to be distributed, they
must be placed in the hut previous to the beginning of the exercise. The
children enter skipping to music, following the lines shown in Diagram
A, mistletoes on the right and hollies on the left, or the reverse.

[Illustration: DIAGRAM A.]

They skip, following lines as indicated by arrows in A, with arms in
upward bend position and hoops arched overhead. When the leaders reach
lines R and L, the skip step is changed to a march, and they join hoops
with partners so as to make a complete hoop with bows at each side. This
is a very easy movement, though it may seem the contrary. Those on the
right extend the inside arm straight to the side, shoulder-high, holding
the end of hoop with the arch down. Those on the left extend their arms
in the same way with the arch up. Each child grasps the end of the
partner’s hoop with his own in the inside hand.

On the leader’s reaching the front line the first position of the hoops
is resumed by all with skip step. When the side lines are reached, they
turn on the diagonal lines and begin a fancy step, dropping the hoop
down around the neck like a boa. On a change of music drop the hoop, and
advance the inside foot diagonally to inside (towards partner), and
place it on the floor, first count; hop on the advance foot, and swing
the outside leg across in front, bending the knee so that the foot which
is crossed over comes almost as high as the knee of the inside leg,
second count; swing the same foot diagonally forward to the outside
again, and place it on the floor, third count; hop on it, and swing the
inside leg across in front of the outside, fourth count. This step is
called “swing-cross step,” which somewhat explains the movement. On the
leaders’ reaching the front line the skip step with first position of
hoop is resumed by all. On reaching the side lines again, instead of
coming down diagonal lines as before, they turn on the rear lines as
shown in B, and come down the lines R and L in C, with the following
fancy step:

[Illustration: DIAGRAM B.]

[Illustration: DIAGRAM C.]

Advance the inside foot, and touch the toe to the floor, and the inside
arm straight to the side and the outside hand on the chest, the arch of
the hoop up, first count; change the weight to the forward foot, the
hoop arched overhead the same as in skipping, second count; repeat the
same to the opposite side, third and fourth counts. Continue this until
the front line is reached. Then resume the skip step, and follow lines
as before in A.

When they reach the side lines, old Santa steps to the front door of his
hut, and blows a whistle or horn, and the skip step is changed to a run
on the toes. The players run down the side lines, and turn on the lines
shown in C leading to the hut. When the leaders reach the cross marks on
these lines, a signal from the piano or another blast from old Santa’s
horn is given for them to halt, which should be executed by them
together. After they have halted, old Santa steps down from his door,
and gives another blast, and all should turn facing inside; that is,
towards lines R and L. Old Santa should walk up and down inspecting
them.

Old Santa, in deep tones: “I have decided to engage you, Mistletoe and
Holly Berry fairies, to do some work for me this beautiful Christmas
night, for I am getting old and lame. Can I depend on you?”

Fairies all together: “Yes, sir.”

Old Santa: “I want you to take each child in this audience a gift from
me and my wife. Will you do it?”

“Yes, sir; indeed we will,” should come in loud, emphatic tones from the
little fairies. Santa should go back to the door of his little hut and
receive the gifts from Mrs. Santa Claus, who hands them out to him.
Santa must call out the names as he gives them to the fairies, as they
file past on lines shown in C, turning on lines R and L, thence down the
steps in the centre. After distributing the gifts they return for more
by side steps as shown in C. In this way the presents, even for a large
audience, can be easily disposed of.




Jack Frost Reception.


The Juniors may wish to give a Christmas tree to the children of some
orphan asylum, combining with this plan a merry time for themselves as
well. If so, a “Jack Frost reception” would be a good way of doing it.

One of the smaller boys, who is also one of the liveliest in the
society, should be chosen to personate Jack. He should be dressed in a
close-fitting suit of white Canton flannel, the fleecy side out, with
here and there little tufts of cotton batting sprinkled with diamond
dust. Long white stockings, with tiny bells sewed on them, and a few
sprigs of holly, complete the costume.

Red crape-paper shades should cover all the globes. The tree should be
hung with glittering icicles of rock-candy, and trimmed with tufts of
sparkling cotton snow. An imitation bird’s nest for each guest is lined
with crinkled white tissue-paper, filled with white sugar almonds, and
placed among the branches. Then the presents, which might be toys or
books that the Juniors have outgrown, in small boxes wrapped around with
cotton batting and tied with white thread, make lovely snowballs. Pull
the cotton out between the threads till each box is a fluffy,
ball-shaped mass; then dip them in diamond-dust; label each with the
name of the one for whom it is intended, and hang them with gilt or
silver cord to the tree. Snowballs of all sizes may be made thus, and
those too large to hang on the tree may be piled around the trunk.

When all have arrived, there may be singing by the Juniors, after which
the “snowballs” are distributed. Jack Frost capers gayly about, ringing
his bells, and tossing the balls to the children, who in turn toss them
lightly about from one to another till each one reaches its owner. The
birds’ nests of almonds and the candy icicles are left on the tree until
later in the evening.

Refreshments are served at the north pole. On the centre of the
dining-table place an uneven block of ice, and extending up from the ice
have a long pasteboard mailing-tube covered with the imitation snow. A
white toy bear standing on the top of the pole, holding in its mouth a
sprig of dusted holly or evergreen, and several other bears grouped
around its base, complete your north pole, and, to further the arctic
effect, the chandelier may be trimmed with icicles and dusted sprays of
green, and for an added touch of elegance, if desired, there may be Jack
Frost place-cards made in fancy shapes, spread with a thin coating of
mucilage, sprinkled with diamond-dust and the names written in gold or
silver lettering. Of course these are not necessary. A substantial but
wholesome lunch should be served.

One or two simple games selected from the index in the back of the book
may be introduced if wanted, but the presents and the little feast will
take up most of the time. Finish unloading the tree; close the evening
with the singing of more Christmas songs; and the guests will go away
convinced that the Juniors are not only the happiest people in the
world, but that they are glad to share their pleasures with those not so
fortunate.




Mistress Mary’s Contrary Reception.


Another name for this entertainment would be “A Midwinter Flower Fête.”
It is charming at any time of the year, however, as both the winter and
the flowers can be made to consist wholly of costumes and decorations.

The guests are received by “Mistress Mary” of Mother Goose fame, with
several “pretty maids all in a row.” The members of this reception
committee should be dressed as for a garden party, in white or light
dresses, large hats, etc. They may be chosen from the Intermediates or
older Juniors, or from the grown-up society; perhaps they might be the
Junior superintendent and Junior committee.

Entering, the guests find themselves, to their surprise, not in a
garden, but in a world of ice and snow. Cotton sprinkled with
diamond-dust is on all sides, with red berries and evergreen from the
winter woods; tables are spread for a feast in an ice grotto where the
palest of blue and green draperies are combined with mirrors and lights
so arranged as to increase the illusion; and there is a constant tinkle
of invisible sleigh-bells.

Just as every one begins to shiver, there comes a burst of gay music;
and Mistress Mary’s flower-garden appears in the midst of the wintry
surroundings. It is a striking and pretty contrast. The smallest Juniors
are chosen for this part of the entertainment. While the children are
coming in, some one should sing the time-honored lines:

    “Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
      How does your garden grow?
    With silver bells and cockle-shells,
      And pretty maids all in a row,”

or, as one version has it, “_flower_-maids all in a row.” The small
Juniors are dressed as follows: The boys in closely fitting suits and
caps of green, trimmed with strings of sleigh-bells and small shells;
the girls in dresses and hats of tissue-paper or crape paper, each girl
representing a flower. The blossoms most easily imitated can be selected
by studying a florist’s catalogue or a botany with colored plates. Some
wild flowers are delightfully suited to the purpose; such as the
buttercup, the daisy, the blue marsh clematis, the pale yellow
adder’s-tongue, the pink swamp mallow, the wild rose, the bluebell, and
the Carolina lily in its brilliant hues of crimson, orange, and brown.
Then there are nasturtiums, asters, morning-glories, sweet peas, and
chrysanthemums; in fact, the list will be found to be a long one.
Ribbons and artificial flowers may be used as trimmings where they will
heighten the effect.

Each child should carry a basket decorated with the appropriate flower
or with “cockle-shells” or “silver bells,” as the case may be, and
filled with small articles for sale. A fancy drill is given on entering;
and, if desired, some appropriate flower songs or recitations may be
added. Then the contents of the various baskets should be offered for
sale.

If any of the guests do not understand where the “contrary” part of the
entertainment comes in, ask them if they ever knew a flower-garden so
contrary to nature as to grow in such surroundings before their eyes. Of
course, the Juniors are never contrary in any other way.




The Bells of Bonnydingle

In Two Acts

BY LILIAN M. HEATH


Characters.

  DOROTHY DOT, _A dear little girl under a magic spell_.
  SIR DISMAL DUMPS, }
  THE BUGABOO MAN,  }  _Two enemies of children_.
  QUEEN OF THE COSEY CORNER, _The children’s fairy friend_.
  FAIRY BRIGHT-THOUGHT, _Chief counsellor of the Queen_.
  WEST WIND, _Friend to_ DOROTHY.
  DOROTHY DOT, _Grown larger, after the spell is broken_.
  OLD WOMAN WITH BASKET.
  CAROL, }
  AVIS,  }  _Friends and playmates of_ DOROTHY’S.
  FRANK, }
  ROY,   }
  REALLYWISH, }
  JUSTNOW,    } _Brownies_.
  I CAN,      }
  I WILL,     }
  Six, eight, or more SUNSHINE FAIRIES.


Costumes, etc.

DOROTHY DOT, _while small_. Girl of nine or ten, small for her age;
dainty modern dress.

SIR DISMAL DUMPS. Boy of fourteen, or older; antique court costume of
gray and dark green.

THE BUGABOO MAN. Boy of fourteen, same style of dress as Dismal Dumps,
but colors red and dark blue. Wears a mask.

QUEEN OF THE COSEY CORNER. Girl of fourteen; trained white spangled
dress, crown, and wand.

FAIRY BRIGHT-THOUGHT. Girl of ten; short white spangled fairy dress,
with wings.

WEST WIND. Girl of fourteen who can sing well; flowing rose-colored
robe, long gray mantle.

OLD WOMAN WITH BASKET. Girl of twelve or thirteen; brown or purple skirt
to ankles, gingham waist, small red shoulder-shawl, sunbonnet.

DOROTHY DOT, _grown taller_. A well-grown, bright-looking girl of
thirteen, closely resembling the small Dorothy. Dress apparently the
same, only longer.

  CAROL. Girl of eleven or twelve. Ordinary dress.
  AVIS. Girl of eleven.               „       „
  FRANK. Boy of twelve.               „       „
  ROY. Boy of eleven.                 „       „

REALLYWISH, JUSTNOW, I CAN, and I WILL. Boys of ten; Brownie costumes.
(“I Will” should have the strongest voice.)

SUNSHINE FAIRIES. Girls of eight or nine; flowing hair, short fairy
dress of bright orange-yellow, made still brighter by a liberal use of
spangles. Wings.

COSEY CORNER. Prettily draped and cushioned couch in one corner of rear
of stage.

SUNSHINE TREASURE-BOX. First act, a box about the size of a small but
deep trunk, labelled on the front in plain lettering, “Sunshine.”

SUNSHINE TREASURE-BOX. Second act, box of same shape, but very large; if
possible, nearly four feet deep; with same label in same position on
front, in letters of the same shape but larger. Have blocks of wood
nailed inside for steps. The lid should be on hinges, and the whole back
of the box, except at the very top, is sawed out, leaving it open. The
curtain hangs at the rear of the stage, with a large opening immediately
behind the box, so that Sunshine Fairies and others can easily pass into
the box from behind the scenes. Foliage, rocks, and stumps for seats,
and other playground accessories. Have a stump and a particularly soft
rock against the outside of the box, to serve as steps.

CHANGE OF COSTUME. In the second act, near the close, Sir Dismal Dumps
and the Bugaboo Man should change quickly while in or back of the
Sunshine-Box, from their former costumes to suits of spangled
orange-yellow cambric, made in similar style.


ACT I.


  SCENE.--_A playground, with_ CAROL, AVIS, ROY _seated on rocks and
  stumps, talking. Music as curtain rises. Music stops._

AVIS. Did you say that she _never_ could grow any larger?

FRANK (_entering_). What’s that? _Who_ never could grow any larger?

CAROL. Why, don’t you know? It’s Dorothy Dot. Dear little Dorothy! It’s
all because she was enchanted when she was only seven years old, by that
dreadful enemy of all Sunshine people--Sir Dismal Dumps!

FRANK. O yes, I remember. He _is_ a rascal--that Dismal Dumps. He put
one of his magic spells on her--he and his Bugaboo Man together--so she
never could grow any larger unless ----

ROY. Yes, she never could grow any larger, unless ----

AVIS. Unless what? Do tell me all about it.

CAROL. I thought you knew, Avis. Unless the key is found, the key to
Dorothy’s magic treasure-box. The Sunshine Fairies are shut up in the
box, and until they are let out we children will all have lots of
trouble because of that horrid Dismal Dumps and his Bugaboo Man.

FRANK (_walking about, his hands in his pockets, looking as if thinking
very hard_). This _is_ a puzzle that gets me! The box that holds the
Sunshine Fairies is locked, and Dismal Dumps stole the key, and keeps
it hidden away. But say, wasn’t there something about the _box_ growing,
too?

ROY. Why, yes. You see, it’s a magic box, and was meant to grow larger
all the time, just as Dorothy was meant to grow larger herself. But,
when the key was stolen, it--the box, I mean--stopped growing, and _she_
stopped growing, and now ----

ALL (_coming forward and singing; tune, “The Red, White, and Blue”_).

      O sad is the plight of our playmate,
        While under the dark, cruel spell;
      No peace can she have, night or morning,
        For foes watch her footsteps too well.
      When found is the key to her treasure,
        How gladly our chorus we’ll sing!
      When forth come the bright Sunshine Fairies,
        The bells of Bonnydingle will ring.
    O the bells, bonny bells, how they’ll ring!
    O the bells, bonny bells, how they’ll ring!
      When forth come the bright Sunshine Fairies,
        The bells of Bonnydingle will ring.

  (_Enter_ DOROTHY, _running_.)

DOROTHY. O Carol, Avis,--all of you! I’m _so_ afraid! When I started to
come over here, I was sure I heard Dismal Dumps and the Bugaboo Man
talking, just around the corner, and I ran as fast as I could, to get
away from them. I’m afraid they’ll be here, yet. (_Looking around
uneasily_). But (_brightening_) I must tell you the good news. I’ve
seen the Brownies!

  (_All crowd around her._ FRANK _and_ ROY _give a surprised whistle_.)

AVIS. _Have_ you, Dorothy?

CAROL. And will they help us plan what to do?

DOROTHY. Yes, they said they would help. Here they come, now.

  (_Enter Brownies, running, skipping, and capering in various ways,
  which lively antics they must keep up at intervals all through the
  play. Coming forward and facing the audience, they sing, each one in
  turn; tune, “Yankee Doodle.”_)

REALLYWISH.

    Kind friends, my name is Reallywish;
      I serve the people gladly.
    Whenever they are true to me
      They cease to mourn so sadly;
    For, don’t you see? they go to work
      To make their wish come true, sir!
    And when they smile instead of shirk
      There’s little they can’t do, sir.

JUSTNOW.

    And my name, if you’d know it well,
      Would save you much debating;
    For it’s Justnow, and when I’m called
      I never keep folks waiting.
    I hasten gladly on my way,
      As fast as I can run, sir!
    And when I work, and when I play,
      ’Tis very quickly done, sir.

I CAN.

    They call me by the name I Can;
      That name I’ll never alter.
    I’m bound to do what any man
      Should try, nor will I falter.
    Brave thinking helps to bring success;
      I’m every one’s good friend, sir!
    Whate’er I try, I’ll carry through,
      And push it to the end, sir.

I WILL.

    And I, the last, am called I Will,
      And never should you doubt me.
    Some call me stubborn, but I’d like
      To see them do without me!
    For ships I sail and houses build,
      And every lesson learn, sir!
    Make haste and call me to your aid,
      If you would comfort earn, sir.

AVIS (_clapping her hands_). O what dear Brownies! And so you will help
us to get rid of that hateful Dismal Dumps and the Bugaboo Man we’re so
afraid of! What shall we do first?

  (_Brownies, puzzled, look up at the ceiling, down at the floor, and in
  various corners, as if for an idea._)

REALLYWISH. I really wish, my friends, O yes, I really wish I knew----

JUSTNOW. Just now, exactly what is best for us to plan and do.

I CAN. But, if each one of us will only think and say, “I can----”

I WILL (_emphatically_). We’ll conquer Dismal Dumps and his Bugaboo Man!

CHILDREN AND BROWNIES (_all together_.) We’ll conquer Dismal Dumps and
his Bugaboo Man!

ROY. Here they come, now! (_Children huddle close together and look
frightened, yet resolute. A few strains of very doleful music, from
behind scenes. Enter_ SIR DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO MAN, _right_.)

DISMAL DUMPS (_scowling fiercely_). Well, here’s a pretty howdy-do!
Don’t these children know they shouldn’t loiter around like this?
They’ll be too late to have any dinner when they get home! Besides,
there’s all their next week’s lessons not learned.

BUGABOO MAN. Well, the lessons are so hard they won’t be able to learn
them anyhow; so what difference does it make?

DISMAL DUMPS. Then they’ll all grow up without knowing anything. In
fact, no matter how hard they try, they’ll never amount to anything.

  (_Children whisper together during this conversation. Brownies
  gesticulate as if giving directions. All nod their heads in consent,
  and approach_ DISMAL DUMPS.)

CHILDREN AND BROWNIES (_singing; tune, “Maryland, My Maryland”_).

    Listen to the children’s plea,
      Dismal Dumps, O Dismal Dumps!
    If you’d go and leave us free,--
      Dismal Dumps, O Dismal Dumps,--
    We would be so very good,
    Learn our lessons as we should,
    We’d surprise you; yes, we would,
      Dismal Dumps, O Dismal Dumps!

    But before you leave the land,
      Dismal Dumps, O Dismal Dumps,
    If you’d kindly understand,
      Dismal Dumps, O Dismal Dumps,
    _Please give back the treasure-key_;
    Set the Sunshine Fairies free!
    We would, O so grateful be,
      Dismal Dumps, O Dismal Dumps!

DISMAL DUMPS (_haughtily, folding his arms_). What impertinent nonsense
is this? Actually asking for the key to the Sunshine-Box! I’d laugh at
the very idea, if it weren’t against my principles ever to laugh at all,
or even smile. Bugaboo, what do you think of this ridiculous idea? They
want us to give up the key!

BUGABOO MAN (_laughing loudly_). Ha! ha! ha! ho! ho! ho! As if we would
give it up!

DISMAL DUMPS. There, you young rascals, you have your answer. But you
_never_ will have the key!

  (DOROTHY _begins to cry, and goes slowly out, left_, AVIS _and_ CAROL
  _with her, trying to console her_. DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO
  _converse confidentially, right_. BOYS _and Brownies consult, left_).

BROWNIES (_coming forward and then towards left, singing; tune, “Jingle
Bells.”_)

                  Come along, come along,
                  Children one and all!
    Hasten to the Cosey Corner ere the shadows fall!
                  Dorothy, Dorothy,
                  Trouble yet will end.
    In the Cosey Corner we shall find the children’s friend!

  (_Repeat, as they go out, left, followed by boys._ DISMAL DUMPS _and_
  BUGABOO MAN _come forward at centre_, DISMAL DUMPS _looking more than
  usually glum_.)

BUGABOO MAN (_persuasively_). Cheer up, old fellow! You certainly got
the best of it, as you generally do when you have _me_ to help you!

DISMAL DUMPS (_shaking his head dolefully_). That’s all very well,
Bugaboo, but what we should do if those children should ever get ahead
of us and manage to open that box, I’m sure I don’t know. I can’t bear
the sound of bells, and those Sunshine Fairies would be too much for us
both.

BUGABOO MAN. That’s so; we never could live in the same country with
them. Of course not! But there’s no danger! Nobody can open the box but
that insignificant little Dorothy Dot, and _she_ can’t without the key.
Come on, now; let’s find some one else that we can make unhappy. I
heard a woman saying she was afraid it was going to rain. Let’s tell her
it certainly will. There’s a big black cloud coming up, now.

DISMAL DUMPS (_brightening a little_). And I heard a man complaining of
hard times. Let’s go and make them all the harder. We can do it.

BUGABOO MAN. Of course we can; we always do. Come on. (_Links his arm in
that of_ DISMAL DUMPS, _and hurries him along till in the latter’s
effort to keep up he stumbles over a rock and drops the key. Neither of
them sees it._) Be careful; you might break your bones sometime over
these stones. Hurry, or we’ll be too late. (_Exit both, right._)

  (_Enter_ OLD WOMAN, _left, with basket. Sees key. Stops, and picks it
  up._)

OLD WOMAN. Well, I never! What careless person has dropped a key, I
wonder? I’ll just put it in my basket for safe keeping while I look.
(_Exit right._)

  (_Enter_ AVIS, CAROL, DOROTHY, FRANK, ROY, _and Brownies, left, on
  their way to the Cosey Corner. The Brownies are carrying the Sunshine
  Treasure-Box. They place it at the rear of the stage, with the
  labelled side forward; then all approach the Cosey Corner, singing;
  tune, “John Brown.”_)

    Queen of the Cosey Corner, let us in, we plead,
    We’ve come to ask your counsel, for we’ve dire distress, indeed!
    We know you help the troubled, and we’ve come to tell our need,
                  O Fairy, hear our call.
    ’Tis the Brownies and the children,
    ’Tis the Brownies and the children,
    ’Tis the Brownies and the children,
                  O Fairy, heed our call.

  (_Curtains slowly part at the corner of the stage, right, displaying a
  “cosey corner” where the Queen is seated in state. She rises and comes
  forward._)

QUEEN. You poor children! I know your trouble before you tell it. You
wish to get rid of Dismal Dumps and the Bugaboo Man; you want the key to
this dear little girl’s treasure-box, so you can let the Sunshine
Fairies out. Is that it?

CHILDREN. Yes, and so Dorothy Dot can grow.

QUEEN. That is right. Be seated, all. Now, for a few moments keep
perfectly still. (_Children seat themselves on stumps, etc._) I cannot
give you the key at once, but I will call my chief counsellor, Fairy
Bright-Thought, and then I shall be able to advise you. Keep very quiet,
now, or she cannot come. Brownies, see if you can keep still for two
whole minutes. It will be good practice for you. (_The_ QUEEN _resumes
her seat. The Brownies give a final excited caper; then seat themselves
on the treasure-box. All are silent. Soft music for three or four
minutes; then_ FAIRY BRIGHT-THOUGHT _emerges from behind the draperies
of Cosey Corner, and whispers in the ear of the_ QUEEN. _The children
start up, but seat themselves again. After a moment_, FAIRY
BRIGHT-THOUGHT _disappears again behind the draperies. Music stops._)
Listen, children and Brownies! I have a secret for you. The spell is
already partly broken, for--just think!--_Dismal Dumps and the Bugaboo
Man have lost the key!_ Now Dorothy Dot can grow! (_The children begin
dancing and the Brownies capering with delight._) But wait! (_All
stop._) It is true, Dorothy Dot can grow, and so can her treasure-box;
but until she has the key the Sunshine Fairies must still be prisoners,
and you are not yet rid of Dismal Dumps and his Bugaboo Man. Now, this
is what you must all do. Search for the key everywhere. As for Dorothy,
she can go away for a while with the kind West Wind, to a beautiful home
on the prairies, where she will not be troubled by Dismal Dumps and the
Bugaboo Man. Then she can grow all the faster, and meanwhile you can all
be looking for the key. But, mind you, the key will be found at some
moment when you are doing a kind act; and, when you want Dorothy, you
must call her. Now away with you! Good-by! (_Retires into Cosey Corner,
with curtains drawn together._)

CHILDREN. Good-by! Thank you! Good-by!

  (_Enter_ WEST WIND, _who approaches_ DOROTHY _slowly, singing; tune,
  “Wind of the Western Sea.”_)

    Breathe and grow, breathe and grow,
      Child of the Sunshine Land!
    Grow, grow, breathe and grow;
      Life is for thee most grand!
    Over the prairies wide and free,
    List to the West Wind’s call to thee,
      Child of the Sunshine Land!
    Come, my little one; come, my pretty one, come!

  (_Wraps_ DOROTHY _gently in her mantle, and leads her slowly away_,
  DOROTHY _waving her hand in farewell. The children and Brownies
  respond by waving caps and handkerchiefs. Exit_ DOROTHY _and_ WEST
  WIND. _Music, same tune, continued instrumentally, as curtain falls._)


ACT II.


  SCENE.--_Same as before, but larger box in place of the one left at
  the rear of the stage._

  (_Enter_ CAROL, AVIS, FRANK, ROY, _and Brownies. The children examine
  the box, being careful not to lift the lid; the Brownies come
  forward._)

REALLYWISH. I _really wish_ I knew why we haven’t found the key.

JUSTNOW. Perhaps _just now_ we’ll find it, if we’re good as good can be.

I CAN. We won’t give up and say it can’t be done; I know it _can_.

I WILL. And we’ll conquer Dismal Dumps and the Bugaboo Man!

ALL. Yes, we’ll conquer Dismal Dumps and the Bugaboo Man!

  (_Enter_ OLD WOMAN _with basket. Stumbles and drops basket, scattering
  wares._)

OLD WOMAN. Oh, dear, dear! I didn’t see that stone!

AVIS (_running up to her_). Did you hurt yourself? You didn’t _quite_
fall, did you?

OLD WOMAN (_beginning to pick up wares_). No, but just look at my spools
of thread, and buttons, and all my whole basketful of things--scattered
all over the ground.

CAROL. Too bad! Never mind, we’ll pick them up for you. (_To_ ROY.) She
looks tired. (_To_ OLD WOMAN.) Suppose you sit down on this rock and
rest, and we’ll ---- (OLD WOMAN _sits down_.)

ROY. Yes, we’ll have them all picked up in a jiffy.

  (_The Brownies_, ROY, _and_ CAROL _pick up the various articles,
  while_ FRANK _and_ AVIS _put them into the basket and arrange them_.)

OLD WOMAN. Bless your kind little hearts! There, now they’re all right
again, and I must be going. I’m quite a bit rested, too. Thank you,
thank you. (_Rises, and starts to go._)

ROY (_hastening after her with the key_). Wait, wait! here’s your key!

OLD WOMAN. Key, is it? But it’s not mine. I picked it up not long ago at
this very spot. No telling who dropped it; one can only guess.

CAROL (_eagerly_). Perhaps that’s Dorothy’s key! (_The children and
Brownies crowd around to look._)

OLD WOMAN (_indifferently_). Well, keep it and ask Dorothy, whoever she
may be. I don’t know anything about it. Only persons in sight when I
picked it up were an old curmudgeon dressed in gray,--the
crossest-looking fellow you ever set eyes on,--and a queer-looking man
with him dressed in red, for all the world like a circus clown. I
couldn’t catch up with them, they were going so fast.

AVIS (_clapping her hands_). It is, _it is!_

ROY. Hurrah!

FRANK. Whoop! (_The Brownies express their delight in the most fantastic
capers yet. The_ OLD WOMAN _sets down the basket, looking interested_.)

CAROL. Hark! the Bells of Bonnydingle! (_Ringing of bells, while all
listen._)

  (_Enter_ DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO MAN, _talking excitedly. Bells
  stop ringing._)

DISMAL DUMPS (_to_ BUGABOO MAN). It was all your fault!

BUGABOO MAN (_fiercely_). Don’t you dare to say it was my fault! _I_
didn’t lose the key. You dropped it yourself!

DISMAL DUMPS. You made me drop it, anyhow. And now did you hear those
bells? That means the key is found, and we’re done for if we can’t get
it again. (_Seeing the children._) Quick, Bugaboo, _here’s_ the key.
Make ’em give it up! (BUGABOO MAN _starts towards the children, who
retreat slowly_.)

OLD WOMAN (_to_ BUGABOO MAN, _stepping between him and the children_).
It’s _my_ opinion you’re a thief, sir! you and the gentleman in gray,
there; and you won’t get that key again, I can tell you!

BUGABOO MAN _and_ DISMAL DUMPS (_together, advancing nearer_). Won’t we?

OLD WOMAN (_taking off sunbonnet, and flapping it vigorously at_ DISMAL
DUMPS). Shoo! Shoo! (DISMAL DUMPS _retreats hastily_. BUGABOO MAN
_advances towards the group._ OLD WOMAN _still more vigorously, flapping
at_ BUGABOO MAN.) _Scat!_ (BUGABOO MAN _runs backward so fast he almost
tumbles down_. DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO MAN _consult, at a safe
distance. The children come forward a little._)

CAROL. O, I wish Dorothy would come!

ALL THE REST. So do I!

REALLYWISH. Why, we’re forgetting what the Queen of the Cosey Corner
told us. If we _really wish_ Dorothy would come, why don’t we bring her?

JUSTNOW. Why, of course. Let’s call her back just now!

  (_Bells begin ringing joyfully again._ DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO MAN
  _turn first one way, then the other, confused, and place their hands
  over their ears as if they could not bear the sound. Bells continue
  ringing very softly, while the children and Brownies sing; tune,
  “Bring Back My Bonny.”_)

    Our playmate is far o’er the prairies,
      But never a heart was more true;
    She’ll come on the wings of the morning,
      O Dorothy, welcome to you!
          West Wind, West Wind,
    Bring back our bonny, to-day, to-day,
          West Wind, West Wind,
      Bring back our bonny, to-day.

  (_Bells still ring, as softly as possible. The children listen.
  Instrumental music behind scenes, very soft at first, but gradually
  growing louder,--“Home, Sweet Home.” Enter the taller_ DOROTHY, _and_
  WEST WIND. _Children rush to meet_ DOROTHY, _holding up the key. The
  music stops, but bells still ring, while_ DOROTHY _takes the key, goes
  to the box, and unlocks it, followed gleefully by Brownies. Sunshine
  Fairies emerge from the box, assisted, if necessary, by_ WEST WIND,
  _the_ OLD WOMAN, _and_ DOROTHY. _The fairies skip about delightedly;
  then, seeing_ DISMAL DUMPS _and the_ BUGABOO MAN, _start to chase them
  both_. DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO MAN _run around in evident terror,
  trying to escape. At last both jump into the box. Brownies instantly
  slam down the lid, and sit on it. Bells ring out more loudly for a
  minute or two, then subside as music begins. Chorus of Brownies,
  children, and Sunshine Fairies, all but Brownies dancing around_
  DOROTHY _and_ WEST WIND; _tune, “Marching through Georgia.”_)

    Welcome home, our playmate dear, this happy festal day!
    O, kind the West Wind’s care of you while you were far away.
    But now we have you with us, and we hope you’ve come to stay,
                For Sunshine rules Bonnydingle!
            Hurrah! hurrah! the merry bells do ring,
            Hurrah! hurrah! our voices gladly sing;
    Nevermore shall frowns and tears their sorrow to you bring
                For Sunshine rules Bonnydingle!

  (_Bells ring loudly again during the refrain, which is repeated.
  Throughout the song, Brownies wave caps, arms, and feet as
  enthusiastically as possible, without leaving their post on the
  Sunshine-Box._)

  (_Enter_ QUEEN _from her Cosey Corner. Bells and music cease._)

QUEEN (_kissing_ DOROTHY). Welcome home, Dorothy dear! How you have
grown! So our plan was a success. But suppose we listen to Fairy
Bright-Thought again. She has still another message for us. (_All are
quiet. Soft music for two or three minutes. Enter_ FAIRY BRIGHT-THOUGHT,
_who whispers in the ear of the_ QUEEN, _as before. Music stops._) My
chief counsellor advises a strange thing. She says, “Open the box.” Will
you do it?

  (_The Brownies get down from their perch, looking puzzled. The
  children slowly approach the box._)

ROY. But won’t the Bugaboo Man----

AVIS. And won’t Dismal Dumps----

DOROTHY. Never fear. What harm can they do us now? Poor old Bugaboo Man
and poor old Dismal Dumps! I’m sorry for them. It was when I was little
that I was so afraid of them. Besides, as we all know, whatever advice
comes from the Cosey Corner must be safe to follow. Come, I’m going to
open the box!

  (FRANK _and_ CAROL _help her to raise the lid. Out come_ DISMAL DUMPS
  _and the_ BUGABOO MAN, _but completely transformed, in new and
  glittering costumes, and with smiling faces. Both come forward._)

DISMAL DUMPS. I found, when I once got into the Sunshine Box, that I
couldn’t be dismal any longer!

BUGABOO MAN. And _I_ found that it isn’t half so much fun to frighten
children as it is to amuse them!

BOTH. So we are both going to be sunshine people ourselves, like all
good Juniors.

DOROTHY (_shaking hands with them_). I’m so glad! Now we’ll all be happy
ever after.

  (_Bells begin ringing again. Music. March of all the characters, and
  final tableau._)

CURTAIN.


VARIATION OF “THE BELLS OF BONNYDINGLE” FOR CHRISTMAS.

To adapt the play to Christmas, where there are gifts to be distributed,
omit the final march, and, instead, add the following bit of dialogue
after Dorothy speaks for the last time:

BUGABOO MAN. And to prove that we _really wish_ to be Sunshine
people----

DISMAL DUMPS. We will look into that wonderful treasure-box again _just
now_,--for it’s Merry Christmas,--and see if we can’t find something to
make these good people all the happier.

BOTH. We _can_, and we _will_! (_Going to the box, they reach in and
take out present after present, handed up to them by two persons
concealed, one behind the box, and one in it. The presents are marked
with the names of those for whom they are intended, and as fast as taken
out by the transformed_ DISMAL DUMPS _and_ BUGABOO MAN, _who read the
names aloud, they are handed to_ DOROTHY _and the other children, who in
turn pass them to the Brownies_, FAIRY BRIGHT-THOUGHT, _and the Sunshine
Fairies, to distribute among the audience_.)




Index of Games


  Accidental High Art              143
  Alphabetical Question Game        78
  Apple and Horseshoe               54
  Apple Shooting                    54

  Bean-stalk Raid                  116
  Bird-Guessing                    102
  Burying the Hatchet               73
  Butterfly Pansy Hunt             106

  Cherry-Tree Blind Man’s Buff      73
  Constellations                   143
  Croquet Bowling                  117
  Curlycue Drawing-Contest          65

  Excuse-Hunt                       64

  Fairy Bowling                    140
  Flying Stars                     142
  Four-Leaf-Clover-Hunt             55
  Freak Show                       117

  Grommet Pitching                  20

  Juniors’ Message to All           80

  Letter Tag                        79
  Little Queen Fluff               125

  Mountain-Climb                    93
  Mountain Quiz                     94
  Mr. Daruma                        46
  Mr. Woodenhead                    40
  My Lady’s Slipper                139

  Orange Croquet                    39

  Pink Violets                      20
  Polly Pitcher Bean-bag            66

  Quiet Go-lol-uf                  120

  Rainbow Hunt                      97
  Red and White Roses               42
  Red-Line Hunt                     19
  Red-Line Tag                      19

  Slipper-Hunt                     140
  Slipper Obstacle-Race            139

  Table Golf with Pins and Peas    121

  Ukibara                           46

  Washington Quiz                   74
  Wishes and Compliments            55
  Wishes and Results                56
  Word-Building                     78




  Transcriber’s Notes


  Inconsistent lay-out, spelling, hyphenation and punctuation have been
  retained, except as mentioned below.

  Changes made:

  Some obvious typographical and punctuation errors have been corrected
  silently; the lay-out of stage directions in the plays has been
  standardised.

  p.  32: SCENE II. changed to SCENE 2.

  p.  87: _Spider_ gives chase changed to SPIDER gives chase

  p. 135: _Nearly_ lost that one. changed to Nearly lost that one.





End of Project Gutenberg's Good Times with the Juniors, by Lilian M. Heath

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GOOD TIMES WITH THE JUNIORS ***

***** This file should be named 55018-0.txt or 55018-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/5/0/1/55018/

Produced by Chris Curnow, Harry Lamé and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

